The Arizona Corporations Commission authorized an 11.5 % rate increase at Tucson Electric Power Co. , substantially lower than recommended last month by a commission hearing officer and barely half the rise sought by the utility .
The Arizona regulatory ruling calls for $ 42 million in added revenue yearly , compared with a $ 57 million boost proposed by the commission hearing officer .
The decision was announced after trading ended .
A Tucson Electric spokesman said the utility was disappointed by the commission 's decision and `` concerned about the financial integrity of the company .
His comments , made in response to reporters ' questions at the National Press Club here , signaled that Seoul is resisting U.S. pressure for a further rise in the currency 's value .
The U.S. wants a higher won to make South Korea 's exports more expensive and help trim Seoul 's trade surplus .
Many South Korean business people want a devaluation instead , arguing that the won 's recent gains already have weakened the country 's export performance .
Mr. Roh also said South Korea is taking steps that would free the won to respond to market forces .
Seoul has pointed to its lack of a foreign exchange market as one reason the won 's value remains heavily controlled .
Mr. Roh said a U.S. demand for the removal of South Korean import quotas on beef will be resolved `` satisfactorily '' but gave no hint when that will happen .
The proposed holding company 's primary purpose would be to allow Great American to continue engaging in real estate development activities , it said .
Those activities generated $ 26.1 million in operating profit last year .
But according to Great American , such profits do n't count toward meeting the San Diego savings bank 's new capitalization requirements under 1989 federal law .
The new real estate unit would have a separate capital structure to comply with the law .
The proposed holding company would also consolidate Great American Bank in San Diego and its Tucson , Ariz. , savings bank into a single , federally chartered institution in San Diego .
The consolidation is expected to save $ 1 million a year in administrative costs , a Great American spokesman said .
But the 57-year-old publisher has moved quickly and boldly to deal with the magazines ' problems .
Last Friday , he told the staff of Ms. that the magazine in January would begin publishing without advertising .
Mr. Lang will do away with expensive circulation drives , not to mention sales staff , and attempt to publish the 17-year-old magazine supported by circulation revenue alone .
`` Any fool can publish a money-losing magazine .
I want to publish one that succeeds , '' said Mr. Lang .
`` For Ms. , it 's time to publish for the reader , not the advertiser . ''
Their reaction was to do nothing and ride it out . ''
`` Seventeen is written more for mothers , not their daughters , '' said Mr. Lang .
It gets more mail in a month than McCall 's got in a year , and it 's not from mothers .
Working Woman , with circulation near one million , and Working Mother , with 625,000 circulation , are legitimate magazine success stories .
The joint venture is being undone , with McCall 's magazine being sold last summer to the New York Times Co. 's Magazine Group for about $ 80 million , and Time Warner agreeing to sell back its 50 % interest in Working Woman and Working Mother to Mr. Lang .
Executives at Time Inc . Magazine Co. , a subsidiary of Time Warner , have said the joint venture with Mr. Lang was n't a good one .
The venture , formed in 1986 , was supposed to be Time 's low-cost , safe entry into women 's magazines .
Mr. Lang surprised Time soon after joining forces when he said he would negotiate rates individually with advertisers , a practice common in broadcasting but considered taboo by magazine publishers .
In addition , McCall 's put in a less than stellar performance .
Until a recent comeback , it saw steep losses in ad pages and circulation .
Time executives complained about the shoddy editorial quality , and in the end , one Time executive who asked not to be identified said , `` Frankly , McCall 's and the joint venture were an embarrassment . ''
Mr. Lang feels that Time 's priorities changed .
`` Their management changed right after -LCB- the venture was formed -RCB- , and I do n't think they were comfortable getting into the competitive wars of women 's service magazines . ''
Today , Mr. Lang believes his magazines will offer what many women 's magazines do n't .
`` We write straight for women on their level , '' he said .
`` We do n't have passive readers . ''
The sale price of McCall 's -- twice what Mr. Lang originally paid for it -- will finance Lang Communications ' buy-back of Time Warner 's 50 % interest in Working Woman and Working Mother .
Mr. Lang says he is n't scouting new acquisitions , at least for now .
`` We would have to go outside to banks to get the money and I am not ready to do that , '' he said .
`` Besides , we have enough on our plate .
There is plenty of work to be done on what we have .
Britain 's Monopolies and Mergers Commission Wednesday cleared Rhone-Poulenc S.A. 's purchase of a specialty bulk-chemical unit from Monsanto Co. , saying the purchase was unlikely to have any lasting impact on U.K. industrial consumers .
The commission , which was asked to study the deal by the Department of Trade and Industry after its announcement in February , said the diversity of global supply of chemicals used in making analgesic drugs was great enough to offset the dominant U.K. market share Rhone-Poulenc would gain through the acquisition .
Morrison Knudsen Corp. posted third-quarter net income of $ 7.9 million , or 69 cents a share , continuing a rebound from steep year-ago losses .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Morrison gained $ 2.25 to $ 44.125 .
Revenue rose 17 % to $ 1.62 billion from $ 1.39 billion .
Rep. Bates said he would write the letters as ordered .
The panel also warned Rep. Bates that any further violations `` may result in a recommendation that disciplinary action be considered . ''
Mesa Airlines said the takeover offer it received earlier this week from StatesWest Airlines is for a combination of cash and securities valued by StatesWest at $ 10 a Mesa share .
Both companies are regional carriers in the Southwest .
When it made the offer , StatesWest declined to disclose details and asked Mesa to do the same .
But Farmington , N.M.-based Mesa said the offer was for $ 7 in cash and unspecified StatesWest securities valued at $ 3 a share .
Based on the number of Mesa shares outstanding not already owned by StatesWest , the proposed takeover would have a value of about $ 15.3 million .
StatesWest owns 7.25 % of Mesa .
Last week , Mesa rejected a general proposal from StatesWest that the two carriers combine .
In response to the specific offer , Gary Risley , Mesa vice president , said management will ask directors to employ a financial consultant to advise them .
Fleet/Norstar Financial Group reported a 12 % increase in net income in the third quarter , led by a 43 % gain in its financial services group .
Fleet also noted that , unlike other banking companies in the Northeast , it has been only marginally hurt by nonperforming loans that have resulted from the slumping regional real estate market .
The Portland , Ore. , thrift , which has $ 5.2 billion of assets , had net income in last year 's third quarter of $ 1.8 million , or 23 cents a share .
Franklin said it expects to report earnings for the latest quarter next week .
The additional reserves relate to possible write-downs of certain assets held by Franklin and its subsidiaries and the default of a bond in its investment portfolio , the thrift said .
According to a spokeswoman , they also relate to changes Franklin will have to make in its accounting procedures to comply with new federal capitalization requirements for thrifts .
The company 's shares closed yesterday at $ 4.25 , off 25 cents , in national over-the-counter trading .
It also announced an initial public offering of 18 % of its gas exploration and production subsidiary .
Last year , the company had net income of $ 117.3 million , or $ 1.30 a share .
It said it will take a $ 10 million fourth-quarter charge against discontinued operations , reflecting certain write-downs and the planned sale of a unit .
South Africa negotiated a new debt agreement with its major foreign creditors for about $ 8 billion of its foreign debt outstanding , said Chris Stals , governor of the Reserve Bank and the country 's chief debt negotiator .
The new agreement will last for 3 1/2 years starting July 1 , 1990 , when the current agreement expires .
As with the previous pact , the new agreement covers the country 's debt `` inside the net , '' which applies mainly to repayments due to overseas creditor banks by the private sector .
The redemption then would be at 1.5 % of the total debt , increasing to 2.5 % in February 1991 , and to 3 % at six-month intervals thereafter .
A revised provision would be included for the conversion of short-term claims inside the net to long-term loans outside the net .
New York Times Co. said net income rose in the third quarter because of a one-time gain on the sale of the company 's cable-TV system .
The latest quarter included a gain of $ 193.3 million , or $ 2.46 a share , from the sale of New York Times Cable , completed in August .
The decline primarily reflected the dilution from acquiring McCall 's , Golf World -LRB- U.S. -RRB- and Sailing World magazines ; lower equity earnings from the forest-products group because of price discounting and an unfavorable exchange rate , and an 8.7 % decline in advertising linage at the New York Times , the company 's flagship newspaper .
Advertising volume at the company 's 35 regional newspapers decreased 1.1 % .
The company said the negative factors are expected to continue into next year .
Mr. Taylor 's overwhelming victory against Republican Tom Anderson reclaims a seat the Republicans had held for 17 years and gives the Democrats their fifth victory in the seven special House elections held this year .
Mr. Taylor 's victory was an embarrassment for both state and national Republicans .
Even so , Mr. Taylor carried all but one of the district 's dozen counties .
Rep. Smith died in a plane crash on Aug. 13 .
Wall Street Journal reporters called companies with headquarters or facilities in the Bay area in a bid to assess the damage to their operations caused by Tuesday 's earthquake .
The calls reached many , but certainly not all , of the publicly held companies with operations in the area .
In most cases damage to company facilities and operations was minimal .
Business was slow because many companies were closed yesterday .
Most of its 4,500 workers were at work yesterday , and no production slowdown was anticipated as long as electricity remains available .
The company expects to work a ship due in today with minimal delays , despite sporadic power .
Offices were closed yesterday .
Securities trading was conducted in a backup facility in Concord .
Workers , except for senior management , were asked not to report for work yesterday .
It expects to be fully operational by next week .
The company does n't expect any shipping delays .
That facility should reopen today .
A spokesman said sales are expected to be hurt , but the losses are covered by insurance .
Company expects to be fully operational by next week .
The company plans to be fully operational today .
Business was n't disrupted .
Plant officials are still assessing damage to parts suppliers and Port of Oakland facilities that handle shipments to the plant .
The computer system was operating , so orders could be taken .
The company has 18,000 employees and more than 70 buildings in the Bay area .
One building in Palo Alto may be damaged beyond repair .
Others had lesser damage and there were no injuries among workers .
Damage will be `` easily in the millions , '' the company said .
It expects any impact on its business to be slight .
The company expects all branches to reopen today .
The plant and its 8,500 employees gradually will resume operations over the next several days , the company said .
The concern 's National Service Division opened a center for emergency service in Walnut Creek as part of its disaster-recovery plan .
The closing , affecting 266 employees , will continue at least until roads are cleared .
It was n't known to what extent , if any , the facility was damaged .
The division had only minor damage at its Sunnyvale headquarters and plant in Palo Altos , and no delays in deliveries are expected .
All are expected to reopen soon .
The company expects to resume full operations by today .
Production resumed yesterday .
Firm will not , however , resume 24-hour service until power in city is restored .
Office closed yesterday at 4:30 p.m. EDT .
St. Louis Southwestern Railway Co. unit halted all service Tuesday night but has since restored some freight lines and limited commuter service between San Francisco and San Jose .
Closed yesterday due to power difficulties .
Many employees stayed home yesterday , but customer service was being maintained .
Could the collapse of I-880 have been prevented ?
That was the question structural engineers and California transportation officials were asking themselves yesterday as rescue workers began the gruesome task of trying to extract as many as 250 victims from beneath the concrete slabs of the double-deck Nimitz Freeway in Oakland that caved in during Tuesday 's temblor .
But there are other long-term effects that raise serious questions about the ability of California 's infrastructure to withstand a major temblor .
That temblor measured 6.1 on the Richter scale ; Tuesday 's was
So why even consider stacking freeways now ?
`` We 've run out of places to build freeways in L.A. , and the only place to go is up , '' Mr. O'Connell said , although he acknowledges there are many obstacles , including cost .
Reasons for the collapse of the Nimitz Freeway were sketchy yesterday .
But most structural engineers attributed the destruction to improper reinforcement of the columns that supported the decks , and the fact that the ground beneath the highway is largely landfill and can become unstable , or `` liquefy , '' in a major quake .
Officials of the state agency did n't have any immediate explanation why the reinforcement did n't hold up .
The firm brought in to strengthen the structure could be liable as well .
Given the seismic history of the Bay Area , `` it seems to me that a 6.9 earthquake is a foreseeable event . ''
`` The work was done properly , '' he said .
Charles McCoy in San Francisco and John R. Emshwiller in Los Angeles contributed to this article .
Company officials and union representatives did n't meet face to face , but the mediator shuttled between the two groups .
Machinists already have rejected a proposal that called for a 4 % pay increase and 8 % bonus in the first year .
In the second year , workers would receive a 3 % wage boost and a 3 % bonus , followed by a 3 % increase without a bonus in the third year .
`` The company will not budge on anything , '' said a spokesman for the union .
A special committee of United Merchants directors said that in view of uncertainties regarding various legal and financial considerations , it could n't recommend the plan to the full board .
The White House is making sure nobody will accuse it of taking this crisis lightly .
In the aftermath of the California earthquake , President Bush and his aides flew into a whirlwind of earthquake-related activity yesterday morning .
Some of it was necessary to get federal help flowing to victims , but some seemed designed mostly to project an image of a White House in action .
Mr. Bush and his aides were accused of responding too slowly after the Exxon Valdez oil tanker split open in Alaskan waters and Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolina coast , and they clearly do n't want a repeat of those charges now .
Mr. Bush himself essentially acknowledged that he and his aides were trying to head off criticism .
The White House already is talking of Mr. Bush visiting the California earthquake site this weekend .
He visited the Hugo devastation but not until after local leaders urged him to do so .
The lethal shudders that wracked the San Francisco Bay Area -- rated a 6.9 on the Richter scale -- did n't match the great earthquake of 1906 , rated at 8.25 .
Our quake behaved much like the Mexico City earthquake , where great damage was miles from the epicenter . ''
He cited the example of San Francisco 's financial district , where many new glass towers survived almost unscathed .
But the public policy issues raised by earthquake damage will be difficult to address , Mr. Johnson predicted .
`` The attention span of the public is short , '' he said .
It 's a danger .
We know it 's there .
And sooner or later , we have to do something about it . ''
`` The big one is still due , '' Mr. Johnson predicted in an interview .
It -LCB- Tuesday 's quake -RCB- has n't solved our problem .
In California , this is the reality .
Coca-Cola Co. may be about to intensify the cola wars .
Other , as yet unnamed , cities will follow .
If all goes well , the product will be rolled out for national sales sometime next year , a Coke spokesman said .
After the confusion surrounding the change of the Coke formula in 1985 , Coca-Cola was reluctant to clutter the Classic name with a brand extension .
But now , the soft-drink giant appears willing to take the risk .
Indeed , analysts have said that the absence of new products , among other factors , has limited sales growth throughout the industry .
In Oakland , hopes faded for finding any more survivors within the concrete and steel from the collapse of an interstate highway .
Bush declared the region a major disaster area and the military was mobilized to prevent looting .
The baseball commissioner said the third game of the World Series between the Giants and the Athletics would be played Tuesday in Candlestick Park .
The 77-year-old official , who oversaw the building of the Berlin Wall , was removed during a meeting of the 163-member Communist Party Central Committee in East Berlin .
Honecker 's departure came after weeks of street protests and an exodus to the West of East Germans who had become disenchanted with his rule .
The country was renamed the Republic of Hungary .
Like other Soviet bloc nations , it had been known as a `` people 's republic '' since
The voting for new laws followed dissolution of Hungary 's Communist Party this month and its replacement by a Western-style Socialist Party .
The shuttle is slated to return Monday to California .
South Korea 's President Roh addressed a joint House-Senate meeting and urged patience over U.S. demands for the opening of Seoul 's markets to more American goods , saying trade issues would be `` resolved to mutual satisfaction . ''
He also said tragic results could follow any `` hint of weakening '' of the U.S. defense commitment to Seoul .
The Census Bureau reported that 13.1 % of the U.S. population , or 31.9 million people , were living in poverty in 1988 .
Last year 's figure was down from 13.4 % in 1987 and marked the fifth consecutive annual decline in the poverty rate .
Per capita income rose 1.7 % to $ 13,120 , but median family income fell 0.2 % .
The election was by secret ballot in the General Assembly .
The U.S. did n't openly oppose Cuba 's seating as the Latin American council delegate .
Britain 's Prime Minister Thatcher told a Commonwealth summit in Kuala Lumpur , Malaysia , that sanctions against South Africa were `` utterly irresponsible , '' officials said .
Christian legislators are insisting on a Syrian troop pullout from Lebanon before agreeing to political changes giving the nation 's Moslems a greater role in Beirut 's government .
The country 's narcotics traffickers claimed responsibility for the slaying .
Most of the country 's 20,000 judges and judicial employees joined the work stoppage .
Dow Chemical Co. said third-quarter net income slipped 6.8 % from a record year-ago quarter .
The decline broke a streak of 10 quarters in which Dow posted earnings increases .
Sales in the latest quarter rose 2 % to $ 4.25 billion from $ 4.15 billion a year earlier .
Dow officials were signaling that the company would earn less than $ 15 a share this year even before they announced in July a plan to acquire 67 % of Marion Laboratories Inc .
That acquisition could further dilute earnings per share this year , the company spokeswoman said .
Dow has n't said exactly what impact the Marion acquisition will have on 1989 earnings .
Dow blamed the third-quarter earnings drop on several factors , including softer prices for polyethylene and other basic chemicals , a slower U.S. economy and a stronger dollar , which made Dow 's exports from the U.S. more expensive to overseas customers .
Another problem was a 7 % increase in operating costs at a time when revenue was rising by only 2 % .
Mr. Bronner seems to believe that the hearings could have gone either way .
I doubt that .
As Mr. Bronner himself says , the smell of `` raw meat '' was in the air .
Harvard 's Laurence Tribe was the constitutional heavy , laying out legal strategies for the senators and witnesses to follow .
I add two others .
The nomination still might have been salvaged if a number of Democratic moderates in the South and Southwest had broken party lines .
The word went forth to every law school that those with federal court ambitions must travel a safe constitutional journey , with no paper trail and no bite to their tongue or pen .
He has too readily swallowed the case for the activist law school culture .
Probing more deeply into the doctrine of `` judicial restraint , '' he would have found a long history going back to the great decisions of Justice Holmes .
The question of segregated schools , in Brown vs. Board of Education , was such an issue .
In our time abortion has become another , best left to a line of Supreme Court decisions rather than to the chaos of 50 state legislatures .
The Financial Services division has guaranteed the Dorrance family that it will receive a minimum of $ 100 million for the collection , regardless of what the bids for the art works total , people close to the transaction say .
What Sotheby 's is doing closely resembles an underwriting by an investment bank .
A corporation that wants to sell stock or bonds goes to a Wall Street firm , which purchases the securities outright , accepting the financial risk of finding buyers .
If the investment bank can sell the securities at a higher price than it paid the issuer , it makes a profit .
That was slightly above Sotheby 's presale estimate of $ 111 million .
Normally , Sotheby 's would have earned 20 % of the total in commissions .
Instead , people familiar with the transaction said , the auction house opted to forgo that percentage in order to obtain the collection and in exchange for taking a bigger chunk of proceeds exceeding $ 100 million .
Art dealers say that while auction houses occasionally guarantee the seller of a highly desirable work of art a minimum price , a financial commitment of this size is unprecedented .
Diana D. Brooks , president of Sotheby 's North America division , vehemently denies it offered the Dorrance heirs a money-back guarantee , calling such reports `` inaccurate . ''
We have some level of financial interest '' in the collection .
`` We do n't disclose specifics . ''
Sotheby 's made the $ 100 million guarantee to keep the Dorrance collection away from its archrival , auction house Christie 's International PLC ; Christie 's has handled smaller sales for the Dorrance family over the years .
When Christie 's officials asked why the firm was n't picked to sell the Dorrance collection , representatives of the Dorrance family `` told us it was a question of financial considerations , '' said Michael Findlay , Christie 's head of impressionist and modern paintings .
It was the highest bid in history for a work of art .
But two weeks ago , Sotheby 's said that it has the painting under lock and key because the loan had not been fully repaid .
`` There seems to be a lot of art for sale , but there 's more competition .
The competition gives the seller the ability to cut a better deal , '' he says .
The Dorrance family will still receive a substantial portion of the auction proceeds above $ 100 million , people familiar with the transaction said .
But it 's likely that Sotheby 's will take a higher than usual commission , called an override , on the amount exceeding the guarantee .
Sotheby 's has been aggressively promoting the Dorrance sale .
At a news conference last May announcing plans for the auction , Sotheby 's estimated its value in excess of $ 100 million .
More recently , Sotheby 's has predicted the collection will fetch $ 140 million .
That 's the highest estimate for a single collection in auction history .
The decision to put the entire collection on the block stunned many , since Mr. Dorrance had served as chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art , and it had been assumed many of the works would be donated to the institution .
Meanwhile , Sotheby 's guarantee is raising eyebrows in the art world .
While he adds that he has no problem with auction houses who sell works in which they have a financial interest , `` It ought not to be hidden in some small print . ''
In such situations , he says , the house `` is going to put the best light on things . ''
For example , an auction house 's comments on the condition of a work of art that is up for sale should be looked at with `` very open eyes , '' he says .
Dealers and auction houses `` know if they do n't lay out a half a million for this , another one will ; it 's that competitive . ''
Egon Krenz , the man tapped yesterday to become East Germany 's new leader , faces the same task that has fallen to neighboring socialist colleagues : reforming a country in crisis .
But unlike the other new leaders in the East Bloc , Mr. Krenz will face an immediate threat to his nation 's very existence : German reunification .
Even if he were to change his stripes and become another Milton Friedman , however , he would still stand a good chance of losing a country .
Mr. Krenz almost certainly will be a younger version of Erich Honecker , his rigid predecessor as dictator .
More recently , Mr. Krenz has been in charge of East German security , and is the youngest member of the ruling Politburo .
In this scenario it 's hard to imagine that a pale imitation of the Federal Republic could avoid being pulled into some kind of tie -- economic , federal or stronger -- with West Germany .
Of course East Germany , true to its tradition , could tighten its borders yet further .
But East Germany is merely `` the land of truly existing socialism . ''
Beyond that , it has to compete with West Germany for a claim to the German identity .
Up to now , the main weapon of the `` worker and peasant state '' has been the ideology of socialism .
With talk today of a second economic miracle in West Germany , East Germany no longer can content itself with being the economic star in a loser league .
Without Moscow 's military and party behind it , East Germany runs the risk of disintegrating .
There 's a certain cruel logic at work here : It 's particularly appropriate -- and tragic -- that the land that produced Karl Marx should prove socialism 's failure in an experiment that uses its own people as controls .
There may be forces that would delay this scenario .
But within the government and in the think tanks outside it , many West Germans maintain that they do n't want immediate reunification .
But it would be ironic if Germany 's reunification , just like its division , eventually were the result of actions in centers of power other than Bonn and Berlin .
`` What kind of right to exist , '' he asked , `` would a capitalist German Democratic Republic have alongside a capitalist Federal Republic ? ''
That 's a question East Germany ca n't answer easily , no matter what its new leader does .
But most businesses in the Bay area , including Silicon Valley , were n't greatly affected .
Computer and software companies in the region are expecting virtually no long-term disruption in shipments .
Also , investors quickly singled out stocks of companies expected to profit or suffer from the disaster .
Leveraged buy-outs may be curbed by two rules in pending congressional legislation .
The provisions , in deficit-reduction bills recently passed by the House and Senate , could raise the price tags of such deals by up to 10 % and cool the takeover boom .
A bill giving the Transportation Department the power to block airline leveraged buy-outs cleared a House panel .
But Secretary Skinner said he would urge Bush to veto the bill .
Housing starts sank 5.2 % in September to a seven-year low .
IBM plans to buy back $ 1 billion of its common shares , a move likely to help the computer giant 's battered stock .
The buy-back , which was n't a complete surprise , was announced after the stock market had closed .
A capital-gains tax cut plan has been worked out by Senate Republicans .
A similar proposal may be introduced soon by Senate Democrats .
British Airways said it is seeking improved terms and a sharply lower price in any revised bid for United Air 's parent .
The British carrier also confirmed it is n't committed to going forward with any new bid .
UAL 's stock fell $ 6.25 , to $ 191.75 .
Stock prices rose slightly as trading slowed , while bonds ended little changed despite a slumping dollar .
The Dow Jones industrials gained 4.92 , to 2643.65 .
But investors remain wary about stocks , partly because of turmoil in the junk-bond market .
B.A.T Industries may delay part of its defensive restructuring plan , including the sale of its Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field units .
The British conglomerate cited the recent turmoil in financial markets .
WCRS Group announced a major restructuring that largely removes it from the advertising business .
The London-based concern will sell most of its ad unit to France 's Eurocom .
Commodore International expects to post its second consecutive quarterly loss because of weak personal computer sales in some markets .
Jaguar hopes to reach a friendly accord with General Motors within a month that may involve producing a cheaper executive model .
Sears is negotiating to refinance its Sears Tower for close to $ 850 million , sources said .
The retailer was unable to find a buyer for the building .
Whitbread of Britain put its spirits division up for sale , setting off a scramble among distillers .
The business includes Beefeater gin .
Markets --
Stocks : Volume 166,900,000 shares .
The dollar finished softer yesterday , tilted lower by continued concern about the stock market .
`` No one is willing to place a firm bet that the stock market wo n't take another tumultuous ride . ''
News of the major earthquake in California Tuesday triggered a round of dollar sales in early Asian trade , but most foreign-exchange dealers said they expect the impact of the quake on financial markets to be short-lived .
Despite the dollar 's lackluster performance , some foreign-exchange traders maintain that the U.S. unit remains relatively well bid .
Harris Trust 's Mr. Woodland noted that the unit continues to show resilience in the face of a barrage of `` headline negatives '' in recent weeks , including rate increases in Europe and Japan , aggressive central bank intervention , a 190-point plunge in New York stock prices , an unexpectedly poor U.S. trade report and action by the Federal Reserve to nudge U.S. rates lower .
In late New York trading yesterday , the dollar was quoted at 1.8485 marks , down from 1.8667 marks late Tuesday , and at 141.45 yen , down from 142.75 yen late Tuesday .
Since Friday 's dive in stock market prices , the Fed has injected reserves into the banking system in an effort to calm the markets and avert a repeat of 1987 's stock market debacle .
Some analysts note that after last week 's stock market tailspin and Tuesday 's California earthquake , it 's hard to gauge where the central bank wants the key federal funds rate .
They say that the earthquake , by preventing many banks from operating at full capacity , has given the Fed an additional reason to keep liquidity at a high level .
Analysts said the additional liquidity should tend to reduce the federal funds rate .
For now , traders say the foreign exchange market is scrutinizing both federal funds and events on Wall Street .
They note that the dollar remains extremely vulnerable to the slightest bad news from the stock exchange .
Indeed , the U.S. unit edged lower as the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 13 points in early trading .
A slight recovery in the stock market gave currency traders confidence to push the dollar higher before the unit dropped back by day 's end .
Some dealers noted that nervousness over the recent sharp dive in stock prices could intensify following suggestions by Bank of Japan Governor Satoshi Sumita that appeared to advise Japanese investors to be very careful in investing in U.S. leveraged buy-outs .
The figures , due for release Friday , are expected to show an uptick in inflation to 4.8 % from 4.7 % in August .
Estimated volume was three million ounces .
Crude prices spurted upward in brisk trading on the assumption that heavy earthquake damage occurred to San Francisco area refinery complexes , but the rise quickly fizzled when it became apparent that oil operations were n't severely curtailed .
Trading on little specific information , market players overnight in Tokyo began bidding up oil prices .
The rally spread into European markets , where traders were still betting that the earthquake disrupted the San Francisco area 's large oil refining plants .
By yesterday morning , much of the world was still unable to reach San Francisco by telephone .
West Texas Intermediate was bid up more than 20 cents a barrel in many overseas markets .
In the San Francisco area , roughly 800,000 barrels a day of crude , about a third of all the refining capacity in California , is processed daily , according to industry data .
For more than the past year , even the rumor of a major West Coast refinery shutdown has been enough to spark a futures rally because the gasoline market is so tight .
But yesterday , as the morning wore on , some major West Coast refinery operators -- including Chevron Corp. , Exxon Corp. and the Shell Oil Co. unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group -- said their refineries were n't damaged and were continuing to operate normally .
Most said they shut down their petroleum pipeline operations as a precaution but did n't see any immediate damage .
`` It 's hard to imagine how the markets were speculating , given that nobody could get through to San Francisco , '' said one amazed oil company executive .
`` One is the panic , the earthquake in San Francisco , which is positive . ''
After the market closed Tuesday , the American Petroleum Institute had reported that crude stocks increased by 5.7 million barrels in the week ended Friday , which traders viewed as bearish .
But some market players still think earthquake speculation could have more impact on the oil markets .
In other commodity markets yesterday :
COPPER :
Futures prices eased on indications of improvement in the industry 's labor situation .
According to one analyst , workers at the Cananea copper mine in Mexico , which has n't been operating since it was declared bankrupt by the Mexican government in late August , are set to return to work .
The analyst said it will take about two to three months before the mine begins to produce copper in significant quantities .
He added that , while there has n't been any official announcement as yet , the Highland Valley mine strike in British Columbia , which has lasted more than three months , is regarded as settled .
Another analyst said the Cananea return to operation may not be as near as some expect .
`` There are still negotiations taking place on whether there will be a loss of jobs , which has been a critical issue all along , '' he said .
Nevertheless , the increasing likelihood that these two major supply disruptions will be resolved weighed on the market , the analysts agreed .
Both of these mines are normally major suppliers of copper to Japan , which has been buying copper on the world market .
The first analyst said that the Japanese , as well as the Chinese , bought copper earlier in the week in London , but that this purchasing has since slackened as the supply situation , at least over the long term , appears to have improved .
`` The focus for some time has been on the copper supply , and good demand has been taken for granted , '' he said .
`` Now that the supply situation seems to be improving , it would be best for traders to switch their concentration to the demand side . ''
He noted the Commerce Department report yesterday that housing starts in September dropped 5.2 % from August to 1.26 million units on an annualized basis , the lowest level in seven years .
`` Along with these factors , other economic reports suggest a slowing of the economy , which could mean reduced copper usage , '' he said .
SUGAR :
Futures prices extended Tuesday 's gains .
According to one dealer , Japan said it has only 40,000 tons of sugar remaining to be shipped to it this year by Cuba under current commitments .
The announcement was made because of reports Tuesday that Cuba would delay shipments to Japan scheduled for later this year , into early next year .
The dealer said the quantity mentioned in the Japanese announcement is so small that it 's meaningless .
One analyst said he thought the market continued to be supported to some degree by a delay in the Cuban sugar harvest caused by adverse weather .
The dealer said India might be the real factor that is keeping futures prices firm .
That country recently bought 200,000 tons of sugar and had been expected to seek a like quantity last week but did n't .
`` It 's known they need the sugar , and the expectation that they will come in is apparently giving the market its principal support , '' the dealer said .
The Agriculture Department is expected to announce tomorrow that the number of cattle in the 13 major ranch states slipped 4 % to 8.21 million on Oct. 1 compared with the level a year earlier , said Tom Morgan , president of Sterling Research Corp. , Arlington Heights , Ill .
Among other things , the government is expected to report that the number of young cattle placed on feedlots during the quarter slipped 3 % .
Feedlots fatten cattle for slaughter , so a drop indicates that the production of beef will dip this winter .
Indeed , some analysts expect the government to report that the movement of young cattle onto feedlots in the month of September in seven big ranch states dropped 8 % compared with the level for September 1988 .
The following issues were recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission :
Health Care Property Investors Inc. , offering of 2,250,000 shares of common stock , via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets , Alex . Brown & Sons Inc. and Dean Witter Reynolds Inc .
Union Pacific Corp. , shelf offering of up to $ 500 million debt securities and warrants .
A new drug to prevent the rejection of transplanted organs has been successfully used on more than 100 patients at the University of Pittsburgh , according to researchers .
Only two of 111 transplants have been rejected .
The Pittsburgh patients are the first humans to be given the drug , which is made by Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co .
There are no firm plans to expand the experimental program beyond the University of Pittsburgh , whose hospital performs the most transplants in the world .
He said that the research team had no financial stake in the drug .
To be sure , the threat has hit home down here .
But not because resources are going to their most efficient use , leaving scarce goods `` allocated to those buyers who place the highest value on them . ''
Rather , lines would diminish because at higher prices many victims could not afford necessities such as food and medical supplies .
Moreover , essential relief supplies such as ice must be distributed throughout the population because of potential health problems from spoiled food and possible outbreak of disease .
South Carolina deserves an A for its quick and timely relief efforts .
Give him an F for his failure to understand the ethics of economic equity .
University of South Carolina
Columbia , S.C .
I 'm surprised he did n't advocate letting people loot , since that behavior can also be foreseen in a disaster and `` every individual has an incentive to alter the distribution of income in his favor . ''
Suzanne Foster
They divert law-enforcement resources at a time they are most needed for protecting lives and property .
And they , or even the prospect of them , discourage disaster preparedness in the form of speculative advance stocking of supplies by merchants .
Miami Lakes , Fla .
What about those caring people all over the country who are donating food , water and other necessities of life to these people who could be any of us ?
Maybe he thinks they should also sell to the highest bidder .
And what about insurance firms ?
Should they be required to pay claims based on exorbitant costs for labor and materials ?
In a free market , his insurance rates can be raised to recover insurance-company losses .
Marietta , Ga .
Mine comes from seeing thriving communities devastated -- but only temporarily .
Their recovery came surprisingly fast , and always with the help of neighbors .
The shock of seeing homes destroyed and city services disrupted may cause some to confuse priorities such as the true economic value of a freezer full of meat .
Victoria , Texas
Too bad theory fails in practice .
We consumers tend to have long memories .
I 'm sure she 'll appreciate what an efficient reaction to her problems the price system has created .
Chris Edgar
Myrtle Beach , S.C .
Each is more problematic than an unexpected divisional baseball championship , but both help explain why Chicago remains a vital center of this country 's regional theater movement .
The Wilbur translation is remarkable -- well worth a read and even better seen in the theater if you ever have the opportunity .
But if you happen to be coming to Chicago in the next few weeks , do n't fail to have a look at Robert Falls 's `` The Misanthrope '' at the Goodman .
Mr. Falls , the Goodman 's artistic director , took a recent adaptation by Neil Bartlett and significantly adapted it .
It works .
This kind of theater was new to us .
In the end , Teddy returns alone to America , leaving Ruth in Max 's chair .
It 's currently forced to turn away many potential subscribers beyond the 13,000 who can be accommodated in its present digs .
For all the attention that Chicago theater has received during the past decade , not one new building has been devoted to it .
The rest , he is confident , can be raised .
His board members alone have pledged $ 800,000 and he is just beginning to massage local foundations and corporations .
Mr. Henning is a Chicago-based law firm management consultant and a writer .
It rose more than the New York Stock Exchange Composite , which improved 0.2 % .
Richard Bruno , head of OTC trading at PaineWebber , said the OTC market has a habit of lagging big moves on the New York Stock Exchange .
While the industrial average rallied on Monday following last Friday 's collapse , the OTC market , which did n't suffer too badly during the correction , tumbled .
`` Our market got hit a lot harder on Monday than the listed market , '' Mr. Bruno said .
`` We 're just recovering and getting back to business as usual .
I 'm encouraged by the action . ''
As investors speculated about the long - and short-term implications , shares of a number of companies that might either profit or face problems because of the disaster were actively traded .
Traders said property-casualty companies with the heaviest exposure in the San Francisco area include the OTC 's Safeco and Ohio Casualty .
Then , if the stocks fell sharply , he planned to begin buying them aggressively , on the theory that the companies that insure against property damage and accidents will have to raise rates eventually to compensate for the claims they will pay to earthquake victims and victims of last month 's Hurricane Hugo .
As well , reinsurers and insurance brokerage companies will have improved profits .
Many investors expected damage from the hurricane to be the catalyst for higher rates in the industry , which has been depressed because of low rates arising from intense competition .
`` The companies just gave back what they had reserved for , '' he said .
`` Now , they 'll have to increase their coffers to protect for the future and that means rate increases . ''
Overall OTC insurance issues were mixed .
Academy Insurance fell 1/32 to 1 3/16 ; but volume totaled 1.2 million shares .
Shares of Kasler , a California road and bridge builder , were heavily traded , jumping 2 1/8 to 9 7/8 on 1.3 million shares .
The company , based in San Francisco , provides industrial infrastructure engineering and construction services .
But most of those stocks fared well .
Apple Computer gained 1 to 48 1/4 ; Ashton-Tate rose 3/8 to 10 3/8 .
Intel also added 3/8 to 33 7/8 .
But Sun Microsystems slipped 1/4 to 17 1/4 .
Shares of biotechnology companies in the area were also higher .
Chiron was up 1/2 to 27 and Cetus gained 1/2 to 16 3/8 .
The stocks of computer-related companies located outside California improved , too .
Microsoft advanced 1 7/8 to 80 1/2 and Lotus Development added 1 1/4 to 32 1/2 .
Power could n't be restored at the company 's San Francisco headquarters to allow trading yesterday morning .
The company earned $ 6.6 million in the year-earlier quarter .
Jaguar 's American depositary receipts added 3/8 to 10 3/4 on volume of 1.1 million .
Analysts in London believe investors , despite their stampede to dump takeover stocks , should hold on tight to their Jaguar shares , this newspaper 's Heard on the Street column said yesterday .
Amgen rose 1 1/2 to 50 3/4 in heavy trading .
The companies earlier said they did n't want to raise their offer to match a rival bid by Institut Merieux S.A. of C$ 37 a share , or C$ 942 million .
But they said the C$ 30-a-share bid , which was due to expire Monday , may still be extended or varied .
Ciba-Geigy is a major pharmaceutical concern based in Basel , Switzerland .
Chiron , another pharmaceutical concern , is based in Emeryville , Calif .
Connaught is a biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concern .
Institut Merieux 's bid for Toronto-based Connaught has run into problems with the Canadian government , which told Merieux last week that it was n't convinced that the proposed acquisition would be of `` net benefit '' to Canada .
Merieux officials are expected to meet with federal officials in Ottawa today to discuss the decision .
They had dealt a major setback that afternoon to President Bush 's capital-gains tax cut proposal , which had seemed in the bag after it passed the House overwhelmingly earlier in the month .
Sen. Bradley has it in his mind that such a tax cut would unravel the tax reform he helped engineer in 1986 .
But he knows that as many as 20 of his fellow Democrats are disposed to vote for the cut , popular among their constituents .
As a result , he took the lead in arguing that the cut should be blocked on procedural grounds .
He helped persuade 10 of these senators to support him and Majority Leader George Mitchell on these grounds .
It could throw in the towel and hope to win on capital gains late this month , or it could follow the White House strategy , to veto reconciliation unless capital gains was appended .
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce has been in the forefront in supporting the Bush proposal .
Two hours later , the first word emerged on Capitol Hill that the administration had agreed to reconciliation with no such assurances from Senate Democrats .
He left a message accusing Mr. Darman of selling out .
It was the Senate Republicans , though , who had edged away from the veto strategy .
The stock market , after all , represents the collective expectations about the value of the future income stream of the nation 's capital stock , discounted to present value .
Why should it be so surprising that a 30 % cut in the capital-gains tax would have such an enormous impact on the value of the nation 's capital stock ?
The total value of privately held assets is easily more than $ 15 trillion .
The value traded on the exchanges is close to $ 3 trillion .
If the tax on any gain to those assets was doubled , would n't the value fall to the owners of the assets ?
Is n't it reasonable to assume that the asset you own would be worth more if the government suddenly announced that if you sold it , you would be able to keep 30 % more of its gain than you previously believed ?
Indeed , the stock market 's steady advance this year tracked with President Bush 's success in advancing his capital-gains proposal .
A 30 % cut in this year 's capital gains alone amounts to roughly $ 50 billion .
We 're talking real money .
Instead , the press corps readily accepted the notion that a snag in the takeover financing of United Airlines instantly knocked 7 % off the value of the nation 's capital stock and caused convulsions around the world .
Why is this happening ?
For one thing , quite a number of the leading spokesmen on Wall Street are not portfolio managers , who understand that the value of assets is greatly affected by how government taxes those assets .
They are economists and financial reporters who sympathize with the view that a capital-gains tax cut benefits the rich .
Yet they somehow think that Wall Street is indifferent to losing the tax cut that seemed so close Friday morning and is now problematic .
The market rebound Monday followed weekend assurances from Mr. Darman that the administration has other plans to win the cut , which is alive and well .
Sen. Bradley 's argument is that a capital-gains tax cut would be bad for the economy in the longer run .
It would inevitably lead to an increase in marginal income-tax rates in 1990 , he thinks , when the White House is forced to ask for higher taxes to meet budget targets .
That is , with capital gains cut , the glue of the 1986 accord will be gone , and political realities will push up income-tax rates .
In this atmosphere , there would be no serious consideration of tax increases .
If Sen. Bradley would permit a vote on capital gains , though , it would pass , Christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market , the 1990 economy would be robust , and the revenue gains at every level of government , including New Jersey 's , would be surprisingly high .
No tax increases would be necessary .
The struggle over capital gains is the most important game in town .
In Washington and on Wall Street .
Federal prosecutors said they have obtained a guilty plea from another person in the government 's ongoing probe of illegal payments in the record industry .
Two other defendants previously pleaded guilty , and charges against the third were dropped .
Companies listed below reported quarterly profit substantially different from the average of analysts ' estimates .
The companies are followed by at least three analysts , and had a minimum five-cent change in actual earnings per share .
Estimated and actual results involving losses are omitted .
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days .
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate .
LTV Corp. won a $ 25 million Army contract for missile test equipment .
Unisys Corp. received a $ 24.4 million Air Force contract for computer programming .
The Tennessee Valley Authority issued $ 4 billion in bonds in the federal utility 's first public debt offering in 15 years .
Proceeds from the bonds , with coupon rates in the 8 % range , will be used to replace bonds with an average interest rate of 13.1 % .
The TVA said the refinancing should save $ 75 million a year in interest payments .
The refinancing is part of the TVA 's strategy of dealing with what has been an intractable problem : its staggering $ 18.5 billion debt , most of which is owed to the Treasury Department 's Federal Financing Bank .
The TVA currently plans to issue a total of $ 6.7 billion in bonds to refinance its high-interest debt .
The bond issue is TVA 's first public offering since the Financing Bank was created in 1974 , primarily to finance the TVA .
But the offering almost did n't happen .
The TVA , in fact , decided to proceed with the bond offering following an agreement last week with the Financing Bank , which allows TVA to keep borrowing short term from the bank for two years after it goes to the public market .
The Treasury contended that TVA could n't borrow from both it and the public debt market .
Why did he add the Value Fund to the list ?
`` Emerging growth stocks have n't been popular in America for years , they 've been neglected , '' he said , and their prices often trail the market as a whole .
The fund closed yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading at $ 9.625 , up 12.5 cents .
A senior vice president and a vice president at James River Corp. sold the majority of their shares in the Richmond , Va. , paper-products concern in late August and early September , reports filed with the SEC show .
Including a sale of stock last February , Mr. Sherry has sold 88 % of his stake in the company this year , according to SEC filings .
Mr. Sherry declined to comment when asked about the sales .
Cincinnati Gas & Electric Co. tops the companies portion of the accompanying Insider Trading table this week .
Three of the utility 's directors have at least doubled their holdings in the company since July .
Salomon Brothers confirmed that it has had a buy recommendation on the stock for about two years .
The stock closed yesterday on the Big Board at $ 28.75 , down 12.5 cents .
The two could n't be reached for comment .
T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. said directors recommended stockholders approve a 2-for-1 stock split and an increase in authorized shares to 25 million from 10 million .
Stockholders will vote on the proposal at a meeting Dec. 13 .
T. Rowe Price is an investment adviser to mutual funds , institutions and individuals .
In addition , they said that months of exposure to the chemicals has left them sensitive to a wide range of commonly used substances .
Plaintiffs ' lawyers say that buildings become `` sick '' when inadequate fresh air and poor ventilation systems lead pollutants to build up inside .
The Appellate Division of New York State Supreme Court dismissed six lawsuits attempting to block a $ 2.5 billion project planned for 42nd Street in Manhattan .
All but two of the 40 or so lawsuits that have been filed since the project 's 1984 approval have been dismissed before the trial stage .
The two that remain have n't yet reached the pre-trial fact-finding stage .
State officials said the court 's ruling clears the way for proceedings to condemn buildings in the area .
But developers of four planned office towers cautioned that obstacles still remain .
As part of the agreement with the state , the developers -- a partnership of Park Tower Realty and Prudential Insurance Co. of America -- said they would not proceed with condemnation proceedings while there was `` significant litigation '' pending .
Park Tower General Counsel Matthew Mayer said the development team will have to review two additional lawsuits before putting up a $ 155 million letter of credit to cover condemnation costs .
Also , he said , the partnership is waiting to see whether the appellate division 's ruling will be appealed .
State and city officials are still negotiating with developers to renovate historic theaters and build and operate a merchandise mart and hotel .
However , Judge Weinstein wrote in his opinion late last month that terrorism and acts of war against civilians can not be defined as political acts .
Judge Weinstein also ruled that judges must consider prior to extradition whether the defendant will be treated fairly in a foreign court .
To do so , the judge said , the U.S. courts must review the judicial process in the foreign country independently of the State Department 's assessment .
Mr. Ahmad 's lawyer said he would appeal .
Lawyers close to the case said they believed the ruling was unprecedented .
In an era of ` sound bites ' and instant opinion polls it is dangerous to apply broad labels to a single term .
-LRB- During its centennial year , The Wall Street Journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of American business history . -RRB-
Early in October , six Arab nations in the Persian Gulf jacked up prices sharply .
The timing was perfect .
Texas simply pumped harder .
U.S. oil supplies , however , had peaked in 1970 and 1971 and by 1973 were declining .
Imports , then six million barrels a day , came primarily from Venezuela and Canada .
But Middle East supplies were growing in importance .
By 1973 , the U.S. was bringing in two million barrels of Arab oil a day , more than 10 % of the 17.3 million barrels consumed daily .
Politics and economics conspired .
Japan and Europe , far more dependent on Mideast oil than the U.S. , would n't offend the Arabs or trade off their precious supplies .
What the Arabs started , inflation finished .
Times may be tough on Wall Street for some , but a few bosses are making as much as ever -- or more .
The figures do n't include substantial dividends on holdings of Bear Stearns stock .
Mr. Greenberg himself was paid $ 4.5 million , before an estimated $ 1.5 million in dividends , up from $ 2.4 million the year before .
The increase is noted in the brokerage firm 's latest proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission .
Because it operates on a fiscal year , Bear Stearns 's yearly filings are available much earlier than those of other firms .
The latest period includes 14 months instead of 12 because Bear Stearns changed to a fiscal year ending in June instead of April .
Meanwhile , Bear Stearns 's 650 stock and bond salesmen saw thinner paychecks over the past year , which the company says reflected lower commission revenue caused by a decline in investor activity in the markets .
However , Bear Stearns on Monday reported improved earnings for its first quarter , ended Sept. 29 , partly because of a 31 % increase in commissions during the quarter .
William J. Montgoris , chief financial officer , defended the lofty salaries at Bear Stearns .
`` All of us are on a base salary of $ 200,000 if the firm makes nothing -- and that 's pretty low as far as Wall Street goes , '' Mr. Montgoris said .
However , Bear Stearns has never had an unprofitable year since its founding 65 years ago .
Four Bear Stearns executives besides the 62-year-old Mr. Greenberg were paid $ 3 million or more before dividends for the 14 months ended in June .
Mr. Montgoris said the firm has a `` straight mathematical formula '' for determining compensation , based on the firm 's earnings .
Last year , Morgan Grenfell shut down its ailing U.K. securities operations .
Morgan Grenfell had advised Guinness on the bid , which was surrounded by allegations that Guinness used artificial means to support the bid 's value .
Morgan Grenfell said Michael Dobson , currently group deputy chief executive , will assume the chief executive position .
His duties will be taken over by Anthony Richmond-Watson , who has been elected deputy chairman .
`` If there 's any coincidence about the departures it 's that they are leaving at a time when the business is in reasonably good shape and going forward very well . ''
The following were among yesterday 's offerings and pricings in the U.S. and non-U.S. capital markets , with terms and syndicate manager , as compiled by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report :
Rated single-A-3 by Moody 's Investors Service Inc. and single-A by Standard & Poor 's Corp. , the issue will be sold through underwriters led by Goldman , Sachs & Co .
Serial bonds were priced to yield to 6.80 % in 1999 .
Serial bonds were priced to yield from 6 % in 1990 to 7.10 % in 2002 .
The bonds are insured and rated triple-A by Moody 's and S&P .
The zero-coupon bonds were priced to yield to maturity from 6.25 % in 1994 to 6.90 % in 2006 , 2007 and 2009 .
Oregon -- $ 100 million of general obligation veterans ' tax notes , Series 1989 , dated Nov. 1 , 1989 , and due Nov. 1 , 1990 , through a Chemical Securities Inc. group .
The group is offering the notes priced as 6 3/4 % securities to yield 6.25 % .
All serial bonds are being offered at par except those due 2002 .
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $ 500 million of Remic mortgage securities being offered in eight classes by Salomon Brothers Inc .
The offering , Series 104 , is backed by Freddie Mac 9 % securities .
The issue used at-market pricing .
Federal National Mortgage Association -- $ 350 million of Remic mortgage securities being offered in 11 classes by Greenwich Capital Markets .
Each $ 5,000 bond carries one warrant , exercisable from Nov. 16 , 1989 , through Oct. 19 , 1993 , to buy company shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2 % to the closing share price when terms are fixed Oct. 24 .
Each $ 5,000 bond carries one warrant , exercisable from May 8 , 1991 , through Oct. 8 , 1994 , to buy company shares at an expected premium of 75 % to 85 % to the closing share price when terms are fixed Oct. 18 .
Fees 2 .
Tennessee Valley Authority -- A $ 4 billion , three-part offering of power bonds priced through an underwriting group led by First Boston Corp .
The size of the issue was increased from an originally planned $ 3 billion .
The 30-year issue was priced at a spread of 105 basis points above the Treasury 's 30-year bellwether bond .
The 10-year issue was priced at a spread of 43 basis points above the Treasury 's 10-year note .
The five-year issue was priced at a spread of 43 basis points above the Treasury 's comparable note .
The issue is rated triple-A by Moody 's and triple-A by S&P .
At the time , the company said it was recalling one of its drugs and had stopped selling two others .
The book noted changes made at the manufacturing level that were n't disclosed to the FDA .
Mr. Patel also was placed on three years ' probation .
Mr. Sawyer began running the company on an interim basis in late September .
Just after midnight Monday , federal spending started to drop by $ 16 billion .
What do you say we all close down the poker game , go home and bank the $ 16 billion ?
That 's essentially what budget director Richard Darman is suggesting , and we think he deserves as much support as he can get .
If human beings ca n't cut federal spending honestly -- and they ca n't -- let the computers do it .
Social Security and spending for poor people are exempted .
However , the Associated Press 's account of the Monday sequester order signed by President Bush neatly captured the contempt Congress shows toward the notion of a legally binding commitment :
`` Lawmakers have been saying for weeks that they plan to roll back the cuts as soon as they agree to a compromise on a deficit-cutting bill . ''
Mr. Darman 's inclination to save the sequester was backed up yesterday by White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater :
`` There is some feeling here that the cuts are the way to go .
It will reduce spending in a very effective fashion . ''
Senator Phil Gramm pointed out Monday that in the 20 years before Gramm-Rudman was enacted in 1985 , federal spending grew by about 11 % a year ; since the law , it 's grown at under 5 % annually .
Another major factor in this positive trend was Ronald Reagan 's decision early in his presidency to fight the budget war on the expenditure side rather than raising taxes .
Child care was one of the many `` extraneous '' bills pulled out of the Senate 's reconciliation bill last Friday .
Others were the capital-gains cut , Section 89 repeal , the disabled workers bill , and the unprecedented reconsideration of the catastrophic health act .
House Speaker Foley ought to deliver that promise .
This is the way government is supposed to work , with politicians taking responsibility for votes that their constituents can identify , instead of concealing them in the great reconciliation garbage truck .
Those days are gone .
Save the sequester , and let Washington scream .
The New York Stock Exchange said a seat sold for $ 436,000 , down $ 39,000 from the previous sale Oct. 4 .
Seats are currently quoted at $ 425,000 bid and $ 475,000 offered .
The $ 475,000 sale price earlier this month was the lowest in nearly three years .
Exchange seats hit a peak of $ 1,150,000 in September 1987 .
Northern Trust Corp. said its board adopted a shareholder rights plan aimed at deterring unwanted takeover bids , but said it 's not aware of any plan to acquire the banking concern .
Under Northern Trust 's plan , shareholders were issued rights that , in the event of certain attempted takeovers , allow holders to buy shares in the company at half price .
Japanese investors , reassured by Monday 's strong rally on Wall Street , erased most of that day 's losses on the Tokyo Stock Exchange .
But analysts said the rebound did n't remove the cautious mood from the market .
Japanese domestic institutions , including trust banks and investment management firms , that had been on the sidelines during Monday 's fall were back in the market , analysts said .
Foreign investors reportedly started off selling but later joined in the buying .
The Tokyo rally seemed to confirm the view , frequently expressed in Japan in the past few days , that the drop in New York was a local problem related to merger and acquisition activity in the U.S. .
`` This time we do n't really have to worry about Tokyo , '' said an official at Daiwa Securities Co .
`` Nothing has changed fundamentally in the Tokyo market . ''
But even though Tokyo appears unharmed by recent market volatility , analysts and traders say there are still a few concerns on the horizon .
`` People are placing small bets .
Yesterday 's buyers favored real estate , construction and other large-capitalization issues , reflecting the fact that many Tokyo investors now feel safer with domestically oriented stocks , analysts said .
They also are concerned about the persistent strength of the dollar against the yen , as a weaker yen leads to higher import prices in Japan and adds to domestic inflationary pressures .
Currency concerns also weigh heavily on interest rate-sensitive stocks such as banking and other financial issues because of fears that Japanese interest rates might have to rise to keep the dollar in check .
Prices opened strongly on the basis of Monday 's Wall Street rally and yesterday 's gains in Tokyo .
But the advance faltered as index-options traders and investors jittery about the U.K. economic outlook took over .
The unexpectedly wide U.S. August trade deficit of $ 10.77 billion hit an already jittery U.K. market in midafternoon .
It was all over the place .
If you bought , you wish you had n't , and if you sold , you wish you had n't . ''
He said the current market `` is all about sentiment , and the sentiment in London is 90 % anxiety and worry . ''
Britain 's economic fundamentals , he said , `` do n't look very bright . ''
Dealers said London showed signs of calming in midafternoon after Wall Street avoided sharp losses despite the trade report , but a wave of futures-related selling later in the session sent buyers back to the sidelines .
Still , some sectors found buying interest after being actively sold in recent weeks .
Merchant banks were stronger across the board .
S.G. Warburg , a rumored target of some European banking concerns , finished 22 higher at 400 .
On the corporate front , Ford Motor announced that it raised its stake in U.K. luxury car maker Jaguar to 10.4 % from 5 % .
Jaguar shares jumped 23 before easing to close at 654 , up 6 .
It announced a 52 % plunge in pretax profit for the latest year .
Brewery stocks were firm to higher on talk of early bargain-hunting , but most ended below their peaks .
The most active shares were major blue-chips , particularly oils and utilities such as British Gas and British Telecommunications .
Traders attributed the action in them largely to defensive positioning in a volatile market .
Cable & Wireless fell 20 to 478 .
Also in active trading , British Steel fell 1 to 124 as 20 million shares changed hands .
In other European markets , share prices closed sharply higher in Frankfurt and Zurich and posted moderate rises in Stockholm , Amsterdam and Milan .
Paris closed lower , and most Brussels shares were unable to trade for a second consecutive day because of technical problems .
South African gold stocks closed higher .
Elsewhere , share prices rebounded in Hong Kong , Sydney , Singapore , Wellington , Taipei , Manila and Seoul .
In Hong Kong , Sydney and Singapore -- the largest of those exchanges -- stocks recovered one-third to one-half of the ground they lost in Monday 's plunge , with major market indexes posting gains of 3.6 % to 4.4 % .
Here are price trends on the world 's major stock markets , as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective , Geneva .
To make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 .
The percentage change is since year-end .
The producer of paper used in magazines and by commercial printers said spending on the expansion is planned to begin in the first quarter of 1990 .
The expansion is subject to approval by federal and Wisconsin environmental regulators .
THE STOCK of Applied Power Inc. , which split 2-for-1 in May , has risen since August 1988 .
In yesterday 's edition , it was incorrectly stated that the company 's share price has softened since August 1988 .
The stock market 's dizzying gyrations during the past few days have made a lot of individual investors wish they could buy some sort of insurance .
After all , they wo n't soon forget the stock bargains that became available after the October 1987 crash .
But while they want to be on the alert for similar buying opportunities now , they 're afraid of being hammered by another terrifying plunge .
Called a `` married put , '' the technique is carried out by purchasing a stock and simultaneously buying a put option on that stock .
Because a put option gives its owner the right , but not the obligation , to sell a fixed number of shares of the stock at a stated price on or before the option 's expiration date , the investor is protected against a sudden drop in the stock 's price .
But most investment advisers do n't recommend using married puts all the time .
That 's because the cost of buying put options eats into an investor 's profit when stock prices rise .
`` This is the type of fire insurance you only buy when the nearby woods are on fire , '' says Mr. Roth .
`` You always want your house insured , but you do n't always feel the need for your investments to be insured . ''
-- If the stock goes up in price between now and the put 's expiration date , the put will probably expire worthless .
The investor will be out the cost of the put , which is called the `` premium , '' and this loss will reduce the stock-market profit .
-- If the stock stays at the same price between now and the put 's expiration date , the investor 's loss will be limited to the cost of the put , less any amount realized from a closing sale of the put .
The worst-case scenario would be if the put expires worthless .
-- If the price of the stock declines , the put will increase in value .
Once the stock price is less than the exercise price , or `` strike price , '' of the put , the gain will match the loss on the stock dollar for dollar .
The put establishes a minimum selling price for the stock during its life .
When a stock falls below the put 's strike price , the investor simply sells the stock at a loss and simultaneously sells the put at a profit .
Or , the investor can exercise the put , by tendering the stock to his or her broker in return for payment from another investor who has sold a put on the same stock .
Brokers handle such transactions through the Options Clearing Corp. , which guarantees all option trades .
The accompanying table shows how this strategy would work for three stocks .
Though not reflected in the table , an investor should know that the cost of the option insurance can be partially offset by any dividends that the stock pays .
For example , Tenneco Inc. pays a quarterly dividend of 76 cents , which would be received before the February option expires and , thus , reduce the cost of using the technique by that amount .
In this case , the investor 's risk would n't exceed 3.6 % of the total investment .
To simplify the calculations , commissions on the option and underlying stock are n't included in the table .
There are more than 650 stocks on which options may be bought and sold , including some over-the-counter stocks .
But some investors might prefer a simpler strategy then hedging their individual holdings .
They can do this by purchasing `` index puts , '' which are simply put options on indexes that match broad baskets of stocks .
Unlike options on individual issues , index options are settled only in cash , and no stock is ever tendered .
For one thing , an investor 's portfolio might not closely match the S&P 100 .
On the other hand , only a handful of individual issues were suspended from trading on Friday .
Normally , once the underlying investment is suspended from trading , the options on those investments also do n't trade .
Ultimately , whether the insurance provided by purchasing puts is worthwhile depends on the cost of the options .
That cost rises in times of high market volatility .
But it still might be cheaper than taking a major hit .
The protection from using married puts is clearly superior to that afforded by another options strategy some investors consider using during troubled times : selling call options on stocks the investor owns .
A call option is similar to a put , except that it gives its owner the right to buy shares at a stated price until expiration .
Selling a call option gives an investor a small buffer against a stock-market decline .
That 's because it reduces the cost of the stock by the amount of premium received from the sale of the call .
But if the price of the stock rises above the strike price of the option , the stock is almost certain to be called away .
And in that case , the investor misses out on any major upside gain .
These calculations exclude the effect of commissions paid and dividends received from the stock .
All prices are as of Monday 's close .
House leaders had hoped to follow the Senate 's lead by getting an agreement from House committee chairmen under which they would drop items that would n't reduce the fiscal 1990 budget deficit from the House-passed bill before the negotiations with the Senate began .
But the effort became snagged on the question of what would become of other issues , ranging from cutting the capital-gains tax to child care to repeal of catastrophic-illness insurance .
`` Many members feel there are important features of the House bill that should be enacted , '' Speaker Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash . -RRB- said .
`` If there is any support for reducing the bill , it is conditioned on their desire to see them passed in another form . ''
Now those items will be discussed in a House-Senate conference , which could begin as soon as today , with the expectation that they could either be resolved there or placed into other legislation .
`` You 've got to give these chairmen the opportunity to see if they can work things out , '' said House Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta -LRB- D. , Calif . -RRB- .
White House Budget Director Richard Darman has said he would continue to press to keep the capital-gains provision in the final version of the bill unless the House drops many of its costly provisions .
Senate leaders had hoped to be able to send a compromise version of the measure to President Bush by the end of the week , but Speaker Foley said that was n't likely .
Failure to pass the bill meant that $ 16.1 billion in across-the-board spending cuts took effect Monday under the Gramm-Rudman budget law .
The bill must be enacted before the cuts can be restored .
Yesterday 's edition incorrectly reported Monday 's trading volume as a record for the S&P 500 contract .
NCNB Corp. raised $ 1 billion in new capital during the third quarter .
In yesterday 's edition , the amount of new capital was misstated .
McCormick Capital Inc. said its tender offer to buy back as many as 1.1 million , or 44 % , of its common shares at $ 3 apiece , which expired Friday evening , was oversubscribed .
The final proration factor will be announced Monday .
Steven C. Walker , senior vice president of this bank holding company , was named president , chief executive officer and a director of both Commercial National and Commercial National Bank .
He succeeds James E. Burt III , who resigned from all three posts to pursue other interests .
Cincinnati Microwave Inc. said it introduced two radar detectors .
One unit , called the Escort , uses a new digital signal-processing technology to detect radar signals much sooner than was previously possible , the company said .
A surprising surge in the U.S. trade deficit raised fears that the nation 's export drive has stalled , and caused new turmoil in financial markets .
The merchandise trade deficit widened in August to $ 10.77 billion , the Commerce Department reported , a sharp deterioration from July 's $ 8.24 billion and the largest deficit of any month this year .
Exports fell for the second month in a row , while imports rose to a record .
`` This is one of the worst trade releases we 've had since the dollar troughed out in 1987 , '' said Geoffrey Dennis , chief international economist at James Capel Inc .
`` This bad trade number raises some deeper issues about the market decline , '' said Norman Robertson , chief economist for Mellon Bank .
The trade report drew yet another unsettling parallel to October 1987 .
On Oct. 14 of that year , the announcement of an unusually large August trade deficit helped trigger a steep market decline .
The slide continued until the record 508-point market drop on Oct. 19 .
In 1987 , however , the news was the latest in a string of disappointments on trade , while the current report comes after a period of improvement .
The bleak trade report was played down by the Bush administration .
Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher called the worsening trade figures `` disappointing after two very good months . ''
And White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the deficit was `` an unwelcome increase , '' adding that `` we 're hopeful that it simply is a one-month situation and will turn around . ''
But the figures reinforced the view of many private analysts that the improvement in the U.S. trade deficit has run out of steam .
`` The figures today add further evidence to support the view that the improvement in the U.S. trade deficit has essentially stalled out at a level of about a $ 110 billion annual rate , '' said Jeffrey Scott , a research fellow at the Institute for International Economics here .
`` That 's still an improvement over last year , but it leads one to conclude that basically we 've gotten all the mileage we can out of past dollar depreciation and past marginal cuts in the federal budget deficit . ''
Many economists contend that deep cuts in the U.S. budget deficit are needed before further trade improvement can occur .
That 's because the budget deficit feeds an enormous appetite in this country for both foreign goods and foreign capital , overwhelming the nation 's capacity to export .
`` People are sick and tired of hearing about these deficits , but the imbalances are still there and they are still a problem , '' said Mr. Robertson .
In addition , the rise in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies over the past several months has increased the price of U.S. products in overseas markets and hurt the country 's competitiveness .
Since March , exports have been virtually flat .
Most economists expect the slowing U.S. economy to curb demand for imports .
But they foresee little substantial progress in exports unless the dollar and the federal budget deficit come down .
`` The best result we could get from these numbers would be to see the administration and Congress get serious about putting the U.S. on an internationally competitive economic footing , '' said Howard Lewis , vice president of international economic affairs at the National Association of Manufacturers .
`` That must start with cutting the federal budget deficit . ''
August 's decline in exports reflected decreases in sales of industrial supplies , capital goods and food abroad and increases in sales of motor vehicles , parts and engines .
The jump in imports stemmed from across-the-board increases in purchases of foreign goods .
The numbers were adjusted for usual seasonal fluctuations .
Alan Murray contributed to this article .
-LRB- In billions of U.S. dollars , not seasonally adjusted -RRB-
* Newly industrialized countries : Singapore , Hong Kong , Taiwan , South Korea
Steve Jobs took a step back from the frontier of personal-computer technology in an effort to spur sales of Next Inc. 's new machine .
The hard drive , which is the storage device of choice for virtually every desktop computer user , also now will supplement Next 's futuristic optical device if buyers pay full price .
But the computer was proving a hard sell because of its high price , a lack of software and an optical data-storage device that was too slow .
The machine began shipping at the end of last year .
The closely held company has n't disclosed sales .
However , most universities that have bought the machines say they are buying small numbers for evaluation purposes .
Commercial customers can purchase the same system through Businessland Inc. , a computer retailer based in San Jose , Calif. , for roughly $ 3,000 more .
Mr. Jobs said the changes were prompted by requests from customers who are frustrated with the performance of the optical device , which is n't offered as standard equipment by any rivals .
Another factor was that customers were asking , `` Why do n't you give us a cheaper system ? '' Mr. Jobs said at a conference on university computing here .
But the technology , while reliable , is far slower than the widely used hard drives .
To get around the delays caused by the optical device , Businessland , which is Next 's exclusive dealer to corporations , has for months been advising customers to purchase hard drives with the machines .
`` We 're extremely committed to optical storage technology '' he said .
`` We think everything will go this way in a few years . ''
He said that the next generation of optical drives will be as fast as hard drives , but he depends on outside suppliers for the devices .
But university computer specialists , who welcomed the move , called it a necessary retreat from the cutting edge of technology and one that 's likely to increase Next 's sales on campuses .
`` But it will definitely boost Next 's sales . ''
Universities , however , say Next 's prices must go even lower before large numbers of students purchase the machine .
Broad acceptance of Next 's computer also is hindered by difficulty in distributing software for it .
Most software is distributed on cheap floppy disks , but the Next computer does n't come with a device that reads them .
Next 's computer also needs more software applications , but Mr. Jobs said he expects more soon .
He said he expects Lotus Development Corp. to introduce a Next version of its popular 1-2-3 spreadsheet program in 1990 .
Educators added that Next needs to soon offer a color version of its computer .
Every major maker offers computers with color displays .
Next wo n't comment on when it will do the same , but is believed to have a color model under development .
The position of chief operating officer is new .
The software company said revenue slid 28 % to $ 53.9 million .
For the nine months , Ashton-Tate had a loss of $ 27.6 million , or $ 1.05 a share .
`` The loss is in line with our expectations , '' said John C. Maxwell III , an analyst with Dillon , Read & Co. in New York .
`` The success of a new product in the database line is needed .
And while the company has n't made a definite statement , it now looks like that 's not going to be anytime soon , '' Mr. Maxwell said .
The company said in a statement that it expects to ship new products `` during the next two quarters . ''
`` This is the second delay now in getting the product out the door .
It does prolong the pain somewhat . ''
Mr. Maxwell said unless the company can start shipments of the new product sometime this quarter , the fourth-quarter loss is likely to be `` comparable to the third quarter 's . ''
If the company can start to ship during this quarter , it could stem some , if not all of the red ink , he said .
In national over-the-counter trading , Ashton-Tate closed yesterday at $ 10 a share , up 62.5 cents .
Tuesday , October 17 , 1989
The key U.S. and foreign annual interest rates below are a guide to general levels but do n't always represent actual transactions .
PRIME RATE : 10 1/2 % .
The base rate on corporate loans at large U.S. money center commercial banks .
FEDERAL FUNDS : 8 11/16 % high , 8 5/8 % low , 8 5/8 % near closing bid , 8 11/16 % offered .
Reserves traded among commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $ 1 million or more .
Source : Fulton Prebon -LRB- U.S.A . -RRB- Inc .
DISCOUNT RATE : 7 % .
The charge on loans to depository institutions by the New York Federal Reserve Bank .
CALL MONEY : 9 3/4 % to 10 % .
The charge on loans to brokers on stock exchange collateral .
COMMERCIAL PAPER : High-grade unsecured notes sold through dealers by major corporations in multiples of $ 1,000 : 8.50 % 30 days ; 8.40 % 60 days ; 8.375 % 90 days .
CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT : 8.05 % one month ; 8.02 % two months ; 8 % three months ; 7.98 % six months ; 7.95 % one year .
Average of top rates paid by major New York banks on primary new issues of negotiable C.D.s , usually on amounts of $ 1 million and more .
The minimum unit is $ 100,000 .
Typical rates in the secondary market : 8.50 % one month ; 8.50 % three months ; 8.45 % six months .
BANKERS ACCEPTANCES : 8.38 % 30 days ; 8.28 % 60 days ; 8.23 % 90 days ; 8.13 % 120 days ; 8.03 % 150 days ; 7.93 % 180 days .
Negotiable , bank-backed business credit instruments typically financing an import order .
LONDON LATE EURODOLLARS : 8 5/8 % to 8 1/2 % one month ; 8 9/16 % to 8 7/16 % two months ; 8 9/16 % to 8 7/16 % three months ; 8 1/2 % to 8 3/8 % four months ; 8 7/16 % to 8 5/16 % five months ; 8 7/16 % to 8 5/16 % six months .
LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES -LRB- LIBOR -RRB- : 8 5/8 % one month ; 8 9/16 % three months ; 8 7/16 % six months ; 8 7/16 % one year .
The average of interbank offered rates for dollar deposits in the London market based on quotations at five major banks .
FOREIGN PRIME RATES : Canada 13.50 % ; Germany 8.50 % ; Japan 4.875 % ; Switzerland 8.50 % ; Britain 15 % .
These rate indications are n't directly comparable ; lending practices vary widely by location .
TREASURY BILLS : Results of the Monday , October 16 , 1989 , auction of short-term U.S. government bills , sold at a discount from face value in units of $ 10,000 to $ 1 million : 7.37 % 13 weeks ; 7.42 % 26 weeks .
FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP . -LRB- Freddie Mac -RRB- : Posted yields on 30-year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30 days .
9.88 % , standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages ; 7.875 % , 2 % rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages .
Source : Telerate Systems Inc .
FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION -LRB- Fannie Mae -RRB- : Posted yields on 30 year mortgage commitments for delivery within 30 days -LRB- priced at par -RRB- 9.80 % , standard conventional fixed-rate mortgages ; 8.70 % , 6/2 rate capped one-year adjustable rate mortgages .
Source : Telerate Systems Inc .
MERRILL LYNCH READY ASSETS TRUST : 8.50 % .
Annualized average rate of return after expenses for the past 30 days ; not a forecast of future returns .
Profit from continuing operations rose 19 % .
The chemicals and insurance company said net in the latest quarter was $ 54.8 million , or 45 cents a share .
The company 's chemicals interests include , among other things , petroleum additives , pharmaceuticals ingredients and polysilicon used by the semiconductor industry .
Net in the latest period included $ 11.9 million from discontinued operations and a charge of $ 6.2 million from a plant closing .
Revenue was $ 1.79 billion , up 18 % from $ 1.52 billion a year earlier .
Tribune Co. , helped by a hefty boost in performance at its broadcasting and entertainment operations , said net income jumped 21 % in its third quarter ended Sept. 24 on a 3 % increase in revenue .
The broadcasting and newspaper concern , based in Chicago , said net was $ 62.7 million , or 77 cents a primary share , up from $ 51.6 million , or 69 cents a share .
Nine-month per-share figures for 1989 reflect $ 12.9 million in preferred dividends that had no counterpart in the year-earlier quarter .
Revenue rose 4 % to $ 1.79 billion .
Enserch Corp. said about 12 million , or 93 % , of the publicly traded units of its limited partnership , Enserch Exploration Partners Ltd. , were tendered in response to an offer that expired Monday .
Enserch said the tendered units will raise its ownership of the partnership to more than 99 % from 87 % .
About 900,000 units will continue to be publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange , Enserch said .
Enserch had offered one-half a share of its common and $ 1 in cash for each unit .
The public sector borrowing requirement , the most widely used measure of Britain 's government deficit or surplus , showed a deficit of # 200 million in September , compared with a deficit of # 765 million in August and a deficit of # 1.08 billion in September 1988 , the Treasury said .
In the six months since the current fiscal year began April 1 , the surplus totaled # 500 million , compared with a surplus of # 3.6 billion in the year-earlier period .
The government is projecting a # 14 billion surplus for the fiscal year .
The reported figures for the public sector borrowing requirement include receipts from the sale of state-owned industries .
Excluding those receipts , the government deficit would have totaled about # 2.5 billion in the first six months , compared with # 1.3 billion a year earlier , the Treasury said .
That would increase Prospect 's ownership of the company 's fully-diluted shares outstanding to 20 % from 14.1 % .
Beyond that , Prospect said it would n't offer to acquire additional shares for less than $ 11.25 a share during the next year or less than $ 14.06 a share during the subsequent two years .
The former executives were indicted last October on charges of fraud , theft and conspiracy related to efforts by the company to win $ 400 million in Postal Service contracts .
Sluggish sales of the Beretta , and its four-door sister car , the Corsica , prompted GM to idle the two plants that build the automobiles for a total of three weeks this month .
The Corsica and Beretta make up the highest-volume car line at Chevrolet , but sales of the vehicles are off 9.6 % for the year , and fell a steep 34 % during early October .
Chevrolet already is offering an $ 800 rebate on the 1990-model Corsica .
The latest rebate is good for all Beretta models .
StatesWest Airlines said it submitted an offer to the directors of Mesa Airlines to acquire the Farmington , N.M. , carrier .
Except to characterize its offer as `` fair and generous and in the best interests of Mesa shareholders , '' StatesWest declined to discuss details of its proposal .
It also asked Mesa to keep the proposal confidential .
A Mesa official confirmed receipt of the offer and said directors would meet to consider it .
Last week , Mesa rejected a proposal by StatesWest to acquire it or merge .
The carrier has n't yet turned a profit .
A sentencing date has n't been set .
Neither Mr. Taylor nor Mr. Watson have been charged with criminal wrongdoing .
Nothing , I assumed , would be more hopelessly dated than a political satire on the Iran-Contra affair .
Though the play clearly is framed around the events of Iran-Contra , it takes in the wide sweep of scandals over the past 30 years .
Not only are there camera operators on all sides , but the proceedings are shown on monitors throughout the theater .
The metaphor of theater is not entirely coincidental .
Most of the evening , though , is filled with rare and welcome wit .
The Federal National Mortgage Association set up a three-member office of the chairman and elected James A. Johnson as vice chairman , effective Jan. 1 .
Mr. Johnson has been a managing director at Shearson Lehman Hutton since 1985 , and before that was president of Public Strategies , a Washington consulting firm .
Mr. Johnson , 45 years old , has been a consultant on strategy to Fannie Mae for the past 3 1/2 years .
In an interview , he said Fannie Mae faces a number of challenges with the restructuring of the thrift industry and the push to broaden its activities overseas .
`` There 's no shortage of major things to do , '' he said .
The board has 13 members elected by holders and five presidential appointees .
Fannie Mae , a federally chartered , shareholder-owned corporation , operates a secondary market for mortgage loans , buying loans from lenders , packaging some into securities for sale to investors and keeping the rest in its portfolio .
Where had all the money come from ?
After he had been head of the company for 3 1/2 years , he and his partners sold it to Phibro , a powerful commodity trading outfit , for $ 550 million in Phibro stock .
Worse , Salomon 's timing had been off .
But in the harsh world of today 's Wall Street they have lost out to more aggressive and sometimes less scrupulous successors .
The old guard had every right , however , to disdain the newcomers ' new ways of making money , such as greenmail .
Their other staple has been corporate takeovers , often hostile and financed by junk bonds .
Hostile takeovers are quite a new phenomenon .
Sometimes they are constructive , but often not .
First , by making management focus on short-term results , they inhibit building for the future -- just the opposite of Japan .
Second , a long-term shareholder of a good company need n't worry too much when the stock price drops temporarily : It will bounce back .
But if a raider takes over when the stock is weak , the shareholder never gets his recovery .
The raiders , meanwhile , have evolved their own pattern for spending their new millions .
Having donated heavily to museums , they demand a place on their boards .
However , on balance , the charity game helps America .
If those who have the money do n't get involved with the museums and the charities , then City Hall will do it , badly .
However , the phenomenon is not specifically Jewish .
It has always been true that those outside the club want to climb in , and that a few will cut corners in the process .
So who knows ?
Or perhaps Wall Street , when it has suffered enough , will realize that finance is a service industry , and change its ethos .
Mr. Train is president of Train , Smith Investment Counsel , New York .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Lockheed closed at $ 46.125 a share , down 12.5 cents .
Earlier this week , Mr. Simmons objected to published reports quoting him as saying he planned to sell his Lockheed stake because `` the defense industry seems to be getting more uncertain . ''
Valhi Inc. , another of Mr. Simmons ' companies , responded to an article Monday in The Wall Street Journal , which credited a story in the Sunday Los Angeles Daily News .
Valhi said the articles did n't accurately reflect Valhi and its affiliates ' intentions toward Lockheed .
Instead , Valhi said , they may increase , decrease or retain their Lockheed holdings , depending on a number of conditions .
Canada , which is preparing to speed up tariff cuts with the U.S. , recorded a 47 % narrowing in its trade surplus with the U.S. in August , Statistics Canada , a federal agency , reported .
U.S. exports to Canada jumped 11.2 % in August from July while U.S. imports from Canada rose only 2.7 % .
U.S. exports benefited in August from heavy Canadian spending on new plant and equipment and a pickup in Canadian auto demand , Canadian officials said .
Some tariffs were eliminated when the trade pact took effect Jan. 1 .
The two countries aim to reach an agreement by early December on a package of accelerated tariff cuts that would take effect early next year .
For such businessmen , the Canadian government is organizing 55 missions this year to U.S. states bordering on Canada .
The businessmen are introduced to potential agents and distributors and instructed in trade procedures .
Participants in the U.S. missions to Canada are to be assisted by members of the Service Corps of Retired Executives , a volunteer group , in dealing with their export challenges .
The Canadian government also has recently opened new trade offices in San Diego ; San Juan , Puerto Rico ; Miami ; Princeton , N.J. , and Denver , bringing the total number of such Canadian offices in the U.S. to 27 .
The U.S. has six trade promotion offices in Canada .
Canada 's export effort has been blunted by robust home market demand and by an 18 % appreciation of the Canadian dollar against its U.S. counterpart in the past three years that has made Canadian goods more costly in the U.S. .
Loral Corp. said it received a $ 325 million order from Turkey 's Ministry of Defense , the largest contract the company ever has received .
Loral will provide to Turkey an electronic countermeasures system for its fleet of F-16 aircraft .
Loral said the contract with Turkey will provide opportunities for Loral to supply that country with other defense systems .
Crown Resources Corp. said it reached a definitive agreement to acquire the Gold Texas Resources Ltd. shares it does n't already own .
Under the proposed agreement , Gold Texas holders will receive 1.43 Crown shares for each of the 1.1 million Gold Texas shares not owned by Crown , which already owns 65 % .
The arrangement is subject to approval by the Supreme Court of British Columbia province , Crown said .
Gold Texas is based in Vancouver , British Columbia , and Crown Resources is based in Denver .
Both are mining concerns .
The expiration date had been Nov. 3 .
Apogee was quoted in the over-the-counter market yesterday at $ 2 bid .
Bank of New England Corp. , seeking to streamline its business after a year of weak earnings and mounting loan problems , said it will sell some operations and lay off 4 % of its work force .
The bank holding company also reported that third-quarter profit dropped 41 % , to $ 42.7 million , or 61 cents a share , from the year-earlier $ 72.3 million , or $ 1.04 a share .
Among its restructuring measures , the company said it plans to sell 53 of its 453 branch offices and to lay off 800 employees .
Altogether , employment is expected to decline to less than 16,000 from the current level of about 18,000 .
Walter Connolly , chairman , said in an interview that the company expects to record pretax gains of $ 100 million to $ 125 million from the sale of its leasing operations and of certain financial processing services .
In a prepared statement , the company said it expects to realize those gains before year end .
Mr. Driscoll said that , despite continued weakness in the region 's real estate market , Bank of New England expects the rate of increase in nonperforming assets to slow in coming quarters .
And he indicated that more substantial improvement is expected in the next couple of quarters .
Among other restructuring measures , the bank said it will close its loan production offices in Chicago , New York and Philadelphia .
Italy 's wholesale price index rose 0.4 % in August from July and was up 6.1 % from a year earlier , the state statistical institute reported .
The year-on-year rise in August was slightly down from the 6.4 % rate in July .
The index has a base of 100 set in 1980 and is n't seasonally adjusted .
August imports claimed 18.5 % of the U.S. market , compared with 19.3 % in July and 20.5 % in August 1988 .
`` Equipment orders on the domestic side were particularly strong in shipping and power utilities , '' said an agency official .
The latest report compares with a modest 9.9 % increase in July machinery orders from a year earlier .
How soon Wang will stage a comeback , or if it will at all , are still matters of debate .
But Wang salespeople are trying to cope with the biggest challenge any marketer can face : selling the products of a company that is on the ropes .
It can happen in any industry .
Consider the difficulties faced by Audi salespeople when the car was tainted by false charges of sudden acceleration , or Exxon dealers ' problems in the wake of the Valdez oil spill .
Like thousands of salespeople before them , Wang 's are finding ways to combat the bad news .
Wang got into financial trouble because of bloated overhead and overly optimistic sales forecasts .
Its mainline minicomputers and word processors have lost ground to cheaper personal computers .
Last year it funded its high employment by heavy borrowing , and it suffered huge losses when sales turned down instead of rising .
After the company reported red ink for the fiscal third quarter , Wang 's marketing department provided the sales force answers to questions such as `` How could you not have known you were going to lose $ 55 million ? '' and `` Is Wang still a viable company ? ''
Salespeople try to push their products and avoid discussions of finances .
`` That 's antithetical to the art of selling . ''
Moreover , he notes that analyzing financial results `` poses a problem for a salesman who is n't particularly familiar with a balance sheet . ''
At one sales strategy meeting , an executive suggested ordering salespeople to become experts on the annual report .
Instead , he says , if the salespeople can get the customers to consider Wang 's products on their merits , he or a top financial officer will try to assuage the fears about finances .
We tell them all the major companies are having financial difficulties . ''
Mr. Miller says that after a sharp sales slump in July and August , sales stabilized in September .
Although Wang will report a loss for the first quarter ended Sept. 30 and the full fiscal year , Mr. Miller says he expects the company will return to profitability by the fourth quarter .
Experts on sales technique say anyone representing a troubled company must walk a fine line .
Show it 's business as usual . ''
That is n't easy .
The university is considering installing a $ 250,000 system to store applications electronically .
`` Before the really bad news , we were looking at Wang fairly seriously , '' she says .
But `` their present financial condition means I 'd have a hard time convincing the vice president in charge of purchasing . ''
During the past year , Wang has developed new products and a new strategy and hired a new president .
`` They were on the road to recovery in terms of customer attitudes until this bad quarter happened . ''
The first priority for Wang 's sales force is to make sure it holds on to existing customers .
Wang 's installed base is one of its greatest assets , and many of those customers remain extremely loyal .
One Wang salesman who left the company in July recalls that when he tried to sell products to Eastman Kodak , he worked `` to muster support from internal allies , '' but `` those allies became skeptical as they saw the downtrend .
The more recent losses were really devastating . ''
New customers , the source of higher commissions for salespeople and the key to Wang 's long-term viability , are even tougher .
Mr. Lynch left Wang this summer for Oracle Systems Inc. , a software vendor .
The financial problems are particularly frustrating for salespeople pushing Wang 's image systems , which convert paper forms to electronic documents .
Consultants say that Wang 's technology is among the best available in the image market .
`` When they were making the decision , all hell broke loose with the finances . ''
He says the Lilly executives told him they could n't take the risk with Wang .
Buyers have to rely on a supplier `` continually upgrading and replacing the product , '' he says .
`` When a company realizes that , it 's hard to go with Wang . ''
You think you can go out and turn things around .
It 's a tough thing when you ca n't .
The reason does n't relate to your selling skills . ''
One key for salespeople is to boost their own morale .
The good news is , it 's not your fault . ''
So , he advises , make goals achievable .
`` Our customers watch us for the hidden message , '' he said .
`` Look a customer right in the eye and say , ` I 'm glad to be at Wang .
The company said it expects the name change to take effect within a week .
Olin Corp. said third-quarter net income rose 26 % on the strength of its chemical business .
Net was $ 24 million , or $ 1.15 a share , up from $ 19 million , or 90 cents a share , a year earlier .
Sales rose 7.4 % to $ 580 million from $ 540 million .
The company said the gains were tied to volume increases and higher prices .
Profit in Olin 's defense and ammunition segment rose to $ 8 million from $ 7 million .
The metals segment , hurt by a strike , had break-even results , against $ 3 million a year ago .
In the first nine months , net rose 21 % to $ 93 million , or $ 4.52 a share , from $ 77 million , or $ 3.62 a share a year ago .
Sales rose 13 % to $ 1.91 billion from $ 1.69 billion .
GTE Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. reported strong earnings gains to record levels for the third quarter .
Southwestern Bell Corp. and Cincinnati Bell posted slight declines .
GTE Corp .
GTE said net income rose 18 % , aided by higher long-distance calling volumes and an increase in telephone lines in service .
Pretax operating profit from telephone operations rose 8.2 % but profits from telecommunications products and electrical products were flat .
Earlier rate reductions in Texas and California reduced the quarter 's revenue and operating profit $ 55 million ; a year earlier , operating profit in telephone operations was reduced by a similar amount as a result of a provision for a reorganization .
MCI Communications Corp .
MCI , which stepped up efforts to sell long-distance telephone service to residential customers , reported a 59 % jump in earnings .
Revenue rose 23 % to $ 1.67 billion from $ 1.36 billion .
`` We think we can take it to the 18 % range over next 18 to 24 months , '' he said .
MCI claims about 12 % of the overall long-distance telephone market but just under 10 % of the $ 23 billion residential market .
It has been trying to improve its share of the residential market .
The current quarter , he said , `` looks fine .
We think revenue will continue to grow and that we can control costs and thus improve profitability . ''
Southwestern Bell Corp .
Southwestern Bell Corp. said net dropped 8.7 % , mainly the result of four extraordinary items : a franchise tax refund that its Southwestern Bell Telephone Co. unit received last year ; a production shift of several Yellow Pages directories to the fourth quarter from the third ; a rate refund in Missouri and a one-time adjustment to phone company revenues .
The earnings drop had been expected .
Chairman Zane E. Barnes said Southwestern Bell 's `` businesses are healthy and are continuing to grow . ''
Cincinnati Bell Inc .
Cincinnati Bell Inc. said net declined 1.8 % .
The company noted that the year-ago period was particularly strong , with an increase of nearly 70 % .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Cincinnati Bell fell 25 cents to $ 29 .
The company said that the number of access lines dropped slightly in the quarter , a decline attributed to seasonal fluctuations .
For the year , however , access lines in service have increased 5.5 % .
Rockwell International Corp. 's Tulsa unit said it signed a tentative agreement extending its contract with Boeing Co. to provide structural parts for Boeing 's 747 jetliners .
Rockwell , based in El Segundo , Calif. , is an aerospace , electronics , automotive and graphics concern .
Those duties had been held by Van Pell , 44 , who resigned as an executive vice president .
A year earlier , the savings bank had earnings of $ 8.1 million , or 33 cents a share .
Great American said it increased its loan-loss reserves by $ 93 million after reviewing its loan portfolio , raising its total loan and real estate reserves to $ 217 million .
Before the loan-loss addition , it said , it had operating profit of $ 10 million for the quarter .
The move followed a round of similar increases by other lenders against Arizona real estate loans , reflecting a continuing decline in that market .
Arbitragers were n't the only big losers in the collapse of UAL Corp. stock .
Look at what happened to UAL 's chairman , Stephen M. Wolf , and its chief financial officer , John C. Pope .
When bank financing for the buy-out collapsed last week , so did UAL 's stock .
Even if the banks resurrect a financing package at $ 250 a share , the two executives would still get about $ 25 million less than they stood to gain in the initial transaction .
In the $ 300-a-share buyout , that totaled about $ 76.7 million .
By yesterday 's close of trading , it was good for a paltry $ 43.5 million .
Of course , Mr. Wolf , 48 years old , has some savings .
Mr. Pope owns 10,000 UAL shares and has options to buy another 150,000 at $ 69 each .
Mr. Johnson succeeds Harry W. Sherman , who resigned to pursue other interests , in both positions .
Manville is a building and forest products concern .
`` There was a difference of opinion as to the future direction of the company , '' a spokeswoman said .
He will also remain a director , US Facilities said , but wo n't serve on any board committees .
Terms were n't disclosed .
The buy-back represents about 3 % of the company 's shares , based on the 3.7 million shares outstanding as of Sept. 30 .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , US Facilities closed at $ 3.625 , unchanged .
The results were in line with analysts ' expectations .
Merck & Co .
International sales accounted for 47 % of total company sales for the nine months , compared with 50 % a year earlier .
Sales for the quarter rose to $ 1.63 billion from $ 1.47 billion .
The drug was introduced in West Germany this year .
Sales for the quarter rose to $ 1.11 billion from $ 1.03 billion .
Eli Lilly & Co .
Nine-month sales grew 12 % to $ 3.39 billion from $ 3.03 billion a year earlier .
Lilly shares closed yesterday in composite trading on the Big Board at $ 62.25 , down 12.5 cents .
Reuben Mark , chairman of Colgate-Palmolive Co. , said he is `` comfortable '' with analysts ' estimates that third-quarter earnings rose to between 95 cents and $ 1.05 a share .
That compares with per-share earnings from continuing operations of 69 cents the year earlier ; including discontinued operations , per-share was 88 cents a year ago .
The per-share estimates mean the consumer-products company 's net income , increased to between $ 69.5 million and $ 76 million , from $ 47.1 million the year-before period .
Analysts estimate Colgate 's world-wide third-quarter sales rose about 8 % to $ 1.29 billion .
Mr. Mark attributed the earnings growth to strong sales in Latin America , Asia and Europe .
Results were also bolstered by `` a very meaningful '' increase in operating profit by Colgate 's U.S. business , Mr. Mark said .
Operating profit at Colgate 's U.S. household products and personal-care businesses jumped 25 % in the quarter , Mr. Mark added .
He said the improvement was a result of cost savings achieved by consolidating manufacturing operations , blending two sales organizations and focusing more carefully the company 's promotional activities .
The estimated improvement in Colgate 's U.S. operations took some analysts by surprise .
Analysts estimate Colgate 's sales of household products in the U.S. were flat for the quarter , and they estimated operating margins at only 1 % to 3 % .
`` But it 's not mediocre , it 's a real problem . ''
Mr. Mark conceded that Colgate 's domestic business , apart from its highly profitable Hill 's Pet Products unit , has lagged .
`` We 've done a lot to improve -LCB- U.S. . -RCB- results , and a lot more will be done , '' Mr. Mark said .
`` Improving profitability of U.S. operations is an extremely high priority in the company . ''
Maybe so -- if you can find where your favorite writer went .
Trouble was , nobody thought they looked right .
`` I thought -LCB- the drawing -RCB- a cross between someone you 'd spot whipping open his trench coat ... or a guy who boasted he 'd been Charles Manson 's roommate for the last 19 years , '' he said .
Is such a view justified ?
In the absence of humans , would the Earth enjoy a constant climate over the long term ?
Clearly not .
About 20,000 years ago the last ice age ended .
Furthermore , no bell has yet rung to announce the end of this immense episode of natural global warming .
It is probably continuing and may well account for most of , or all of , present-day global warming .
The Internal Revenue Service plans to restructure itself more like a private corporation .
The IRS also said that it would create the position of chief financial officer , who will be hired from within the agency .
IRS Commissioner Fred T. Goldberg said the changes are intended to bring `` accountability '' to the agency , which has an annual budget of more than $ 5 billion and collects about $ 1 trillion a year .
`` My assessment and everyone 's assessment is that we do not have the kinds of information that let us responsibly and effectively formulate and execute our budget , '' Mr. Goldberg said .
`` And we do n't have internal controls and discipline that we need to have to spend $ 5 billion properly . ''
Mr. Goldberg , who took over as head of the IRS in July , has been disturbed by what he considers the inefficiency , waste and lack of coordination among the branches of the vast federal agency .
The IRS operates on a computer system designed in 1961 , which it has been trying to modernize for years .
And the agency , which operated throughout fiscal 1989 with a $ 360 million budget shortfall , has been under a hiring freeze since last fall .
The new commissioner says that closer scrutiny of how the agency uses its resources will go a long way toward enhancing its ability to collect more tax revenue .
`` I think that you will see a significant improvement in the budget formulation and execution process which , in turn , I believe will result in a significant increase in revenue , '' he said .
The IRS hopes to fill the new positions soon .
`` You 're telling someone they can spend the next three or four or five or six years of their life bringing about the most difficult and costly modernization of an information system on the civil side ever , '' Mr. Goldberg said .
`` On the comptroller side , you 're developing and making work financial controls governing a $ 6 billion budget .
They were the signature of his adversary , Panamanian leader Manuel Antonio Noriega .
More enemies to be dealt with .
In the two weeks since the rebellion , which the U.S. hesitantly backed , Mr. Noriega has been at his most brutal - and efficient - in maintaining power .
America 's war on the dictator over the past two years , following his indictment on drug charges in February 1988 , is the legacy of that relationship .
Before American foreign policy set out to destroy Noriega , it helped create him out of the crucible of Panama 's long history of conspirators and pirates .
For most of the past 30 years , the marriage was one of convenience .
The woman had nearly died .
But U.S. intelligence , rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy , merely filed the report away .
Mr. Noriega 's tips on emerging leftists at his school were deemed more important to U.S. interests .
From that point on , the U.S. would make a practice of overlooking the Panamanian 's misadventures .
Yet he has proved more resilient than any of them .
And out of necessity : The U.S. can make mistakes and still hope to remove him from power , but a single error on his part could cost him his life .
`` He has mastered the art of survival . ''
`` If the U.S. had sat back and done nothing , he might not have made it through 1988 , '' Mr. Moss contends .
`` The Americans have left him without a way out .
It is easy to fight when you do n't have any other option . ''
His chief advantage in the fight : his intimate knowledge of American ways and weaknesses .
A spy was born .
Born the illegitimate son of his father 's maid , he was raised on the mean streets of the central market district of Panama City .
Mr. Noriega 's relationship to American intelligence agencies became contractual in either 1966 or 1967 , intelligence officials say .
United Fruit was one of the two largest contributors to Panama 's national income .
It was modest pay by American standards , but a healthy boost to his small military salary , which fellow officers remember as having been $ 300 to $ 400 monthly .
`` He started building the files that helped him gain power . ''
This proved particularly valuable to the Panamanian government in 1967 , when union leaders were planning a May Day march that the government feared could turn violent .
Mr. Noriega had learned that a local union leader was sleeping with the wife of his deputy .
The campaign so divided union leaders that the government found them far easier to control .
`` It was like a play on Broadway , '' recalls Mr. Martinez .
`` Noriega managed the whole thing .
Mr. Noriega would order them all to take off their clothes and run around the courtyard naked , laughing at them and then retreating to his office .
`` People started wondering if something was wrong with him , '' Mr. Miranda recalls .
But through this period , so far as the U.S. military was concerned , Mr. Noriega was a model recruit .
When U.S. diplomats complained to the CIA of Col. Noriega 's moonlighting , intelligence experts always insisted that his allegiance was first to the Americans .
`` Some of us wondered how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information when he was just as close to the Cubans . ''
Even at this early stage , drugs caused additional concerns .
One DEA agent drew up a list of five options for dealing with Col. Noriega , one of which was assassination .
`` Everybody was afraid of him , '' Mr. Ingersoll says .
For the first time , the U.S. considered cutting Mr. Noriega from its intelligence payroll -- and the deliberations were intense , Mr. Turner says .
Intelligence officials to this day worry whether Mr. Noriega sold sensitive information on the recordings to the Cubans or others .
And the investigators were quickly closing in on Mr. Noriega himself .
At the time , though , in 1979 , the U.S. was once again flirting with its longtime Latin American spy .
Mr. Noriega made plans to fly to Washington for a meeting with his counterpart at the Pentagon .
It was a Friday in June .
The Pentagon foiled the plan .
According to military officers at the time , word was passed to Mr. Noriega by his American hosts that the police would be waiting .
On Monday , U.S. officials received a routine , unclassified message from the military group commander in Panama .
`` Due to health reasons , Lt. Col. Noriega has elected to postpone his visit to Washington , '' it read .
Prosecutors in Miami received yet another setback .
The letter , along with a detailed prosecution memo , sat on the desks of Justice officials for months before the case died a quiet death .
`` I think if we had been allowed to go ahead then we would n't have the problems we have now , '' Mr. Sanford says .
`` If he had been found guilty , we could have stopped him . ''
Soon , the military became a veritable mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses .
Payments averaged nearly $ 200,000 a year from the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency and the CIA .
Although working for U.S. intelligence , Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively .
During the Reagan years he expanded his business and intelligence contacts with the Cubans and the Sandinistas .
And on at least one occasion , in the spring of 1985 , he helped arrange a sabotage attack on a Sandinista arsenal in Nicaragua .
`` Noriega played U.S. intelligence agencies and the U.S. government like a violin , '' he says .
Mr. Windsor notified Everett E. Briggs , the U.S. ambassador to Panama , of the invitation .
`` Briggs screamed , '' Mr. Windsor recalls .
Mr. Briggs , on vacation after resigning his position at the National Security Council , could n't be reached for comment .
As Mr. Noriega 's political troubles grew , so did his offers of assistance to the Contras , an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington .
For instance , he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party .
But just one month later , he also contributed $ 100,000 to a Contra leader , according to documents released for Oliver North 's criminal trial in Washington , D.C .
Yet , his political setbacks mounted .
And , all the while , Panama 's debt problems continued to grow .
Mr. Noriega was growing desperate .
In late 1986 , he made an offer he thought the U.S. could n't refuse .
`` North , '' the document went on , referring to Oliver North , `` has told Noriega 's representative that U.S. law forbade such actions .
Mr. Noriega 's proposal was turned down .
The end of the marriage was at hand .
Within weeks the unfolding Iran-Contra scandal took away Mr. Noriega 's insurance policy .
Few American officials were willing any longer to defend him .
Lawyers in Miami -- this time working virtually without impediment -- prepared to have him indicted on drug charges in February 1988 .
Now , neither side -- the U.S. nor Mr. Noriega -- has an easy out .
President Bush has sworn to bring him to justice .
Mr. Noriega believes he has n't any alternative but to continue clutching to power .
Not quite , Sen. Leahy contends .
`` For short-term gains , people were willing to put up with him .
That allowed him to get stronger and stronger , '' he says .
`` I do n't think we created him as much as we fed him , nurtured him and let him grow up to be big and strong .
Yesterday 's edition provided analysts ' estimates for the company when actual earnings were available .
Industrial production declined 0.1 % in September , reinforcing other signs that the manufacturing sector continues its slowing trend .
The Federal Reserve Board said output of the nation 's factories , mines and utilities expanded at an annual rate of 1.3 % in the third quarter , substantially slower than the 3.3 % annual rate in the second quarter .
`` They need to do something about this , '' said Maury Harris , economist at PaineWebber Group Inc .
Measures of manufacturing activity fell more than the overall measures .
Factory output dropped 0.2 % , its first decline since February , after having been unchanged in October .
The declines mainly reflected widespread weakness in durable goods , those intended to last more than three years .
The biggest drop was recorded by primary metals producers , a category that includes the steel industry .
Output of business equipment was unchanged in September .
Production of factory equipment , one indication of the strength of manufacturers ' investment spending , fell 0.3 % .
Some economists expect further declines in investment spending .
`` You have n't seen the full effect of that yet . ''
A decline in truck production more than offset a sharp rise in auto assemblies , the Fed noted .
Analysts do n't expect the September surge in auto production to be repeated in the coming months .
Here is a summary of the Federal Reserve Board 's report on industrial production in September .
The figures are seasonally adjusted .
The drop is particularly large for white males , although black males and white and black women also show lower mortality rates .
The report , which comes 25 years after the U.S. Surgeon General issued a report warning against the dangers of smoking , is the strongest indication to date that the reduction in smoking is leading to lower death rates from lung cancer .
The National Cancer Institute report compares mortality rates of two groups of people between the ages of 35 and 44 a decade apart .
The death rate from lung cancer of white males aged 35 to 44 in the mid-1970s was 13.4 per 100,000 , but the mortality rate of the same age group in the mid-1980s was 9.6 , a decline of 28.7 % .
The drop in mortality rates for women was less steep -- 8.9 % for blacks and 5.3 % for whites .
However , he stressed that the improvement depends on a continued reduction in smoking .
A higher proportion of black men smoke than white men .
While nearly equal percentages of black and white women currently smoke , in both sexes more whites have given up smoking than blacks .
Asians and native Americans were n't studied ; Hispanics were included with whites .
Traders trying to profit from the recent volatility in financial markets invaded the Nasdaq over-the-counter market , prompting even more swings in stock prices .
After gaining strength during a brief run-up when trading began , the Nasdaq Composite Index weakened under selling pressure .
During the last two hours of trading , the composite almost drew even on the day before slipping again .
The action was confined to Nasdaq 's biggest and most liquid stocks , traders said .
The volatility was dizzying for traders .
`` The market must have turned up and down 15 different times , '' commented Lance Zipper , head of OTC trading at Kidder Peabody .
`` Every time you thought it was going into a rally it gave up , and every time you thought it would rally it came down .
This is a tough market . ''
Mr. Zipper said the market is still settling down after the recent correction .
Most of trading action now is from professional traders who are trying to take advantage of the price swings to turn a quick profit , he and other traders said .
`` Everybody 's confused and no one has an opinion that lasts longer than 30 seconds , '' said Mr. Zipper .
`` A lot of the professional traders are just going back and forth .
They 're just as confused . ''
He believes that the volatile conditions created by program trading has `` thoroughly confused '' investors about where the market is headed .
Trading activity cooled off from Monday 's sizzling pace .
Advancing and declining issues finished about even .
One big technology issue , Novell , rode the roller coaster .
The stock , which finished Monday at 29 1/2 , traded as high as 29 3/4 and as low as 28 3/4 before closing at 29 1/4 , down 1/4 .
It was a jarring day for investors in Genetics Institute .
The stock recovered somewhat to finish 1 1/4 lower at 26 1/4 .
Earlier this week , Genetics Institute reported wider losses in its fiscal third quarter ended Aug. 31 .
Price Co. jumped 2 1/4 to 44 on 1.7 million shares .
The wholesaler of cash and carry merchandise reported fiscal fourthquarter earnings that were better than analysts had expected .
The company also pleased analysts by announcing four new store openings planned for fiscal 1990 , ending next August .
That will bring the total for the year to 10 , from five during fiscal 1989 .
`` Every year we 've been waiting for stepped-up expansion from the company .
Its shares added 3/4 to 30 3/4 .
But favorable earnings was n't a guarantee that a stock 's price would improve yesterday .
MCI Communications tumbled 2 5/8 to 42 3/8 on 4.7 million shares even though the telecommunications giant reported a 63 % increase in third-quarter profit .
CoreStates Financial slipped 3/8 to 43 1/8 in active trading after reporting that third-quarter earnings improved to $ 1.27 a share from $ 1.15 a share a year earlier .
A&W Brands lost 1/4 to 27 .
Capital Associates dropped 1 to 5 3/8 .
The company , which leases technology equipment , reported substantially lower net income for its fiscal first quarter , which ended Aug. 31 .
Robert M. Jelenic , 39 , was named president and chief operating officer of this closely held publisher .
The post had been vacant for more than a year .
Mr. Jelenic had been executive vice president for operations .
In addition , Ralph Ingersoll II , 43 , chairman and chief executive , said he would take on additional responsibilities as editor in chief of the company .
Mr. Ingersoll remains editor in chief of the company 's recently launched daily , the St. Louis Sun .
Michael Applebaum resigned after less than a year in the posts .
Then cast-iron sewer pipe and the flush toilet were followed by sewage - and water-treatment plants toward the end of the 19th century .
Mr. Ehrlich predicted unprecedented famine by 1980 .
There were many more .
Unknown before 1960 were the inconclusive effects of acid rain , greenhouse warming and ozone depletion , all of which required burgeoning political power and gargantuan expense .
Local pollution problems require cheap energy and capital for their solution .
First and foremost , the vignettes presented by the various scientists represent a general consensus among specialists working in the respective aspects of the global environment .
The point was to answer the question in the conference title , not to try to create news stories for the event itself .
Each speaker was asked to address a specific topic , not deliver a point of view .
This leads to a very special sense of urgency .
We have literally altered the chemistry and physics of our planet 's atmosphere .
This portends consequences from what we have already done that will be very destabilizing to social and economic systems .
The consensus from the scientific community is that there is sufficient evidence to advise major policy changes .
No , we are not overreacting .
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. , fulfilling its dismal earnings forecast for 1989 , said its third-quarter net income fell 68 % on flat revenue .
The results met estimates of analysts , who had already slashed their projections after the company said in late August that its 1989 earnings could tumble as much as 37 % .
A company spokesman said yesterday that Coca-Cola Enterprises sticks by its 1989 forecast .
Third-quarter revenue was flat at $ 1.02 billion .
The year-ago results , however , included the operations of a bottling business , which was sold last December .
Excluding that bottling business , Coca-Cola Enterprises ' volume , measured by cases of soda , rose only 1 % .
The volume is well below the industry 's 4 % to 5 % growth rate of recent years , but in line with other soft-drink companies for the third quarter .
The latest third-quarter volume also compares with a very strong 10 % growth in the year-ago quarter .
Coca-Cola Enterprises blamed the lower volume on its soft-drink prices , which were about 3 % higher in the third quarter .
Coca-Cola Enterprises said it had to boost spending for trade and dealer incentives to try to keep volumes from slipping .
The company said it expects consumers will adjust to higher-priced soft drinks .
Coca-Cola Enterprises , which is 49%-owned by Coca-Cola Co. , also said it repurchased about 1.2 million of its common shares during the third quarter .
Sales rose 25 % to $ 3.90 billion from $ 3.13 billion .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Coca-Cola Enterprises closed at $ 16.375 a share , down 62.5 cents .
L.J. Hooker Corp. is expected to reach an agreement in principle this week to sell Merksamer Jewelers Inc. to management , say executives familiar with the talks .
L.J. Hooker , based in Atlanta , filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection earlier this year .
Currently , its parent company , Hooker Corp. of Sydney , Australia , is being managed by a court-appointed liquidator .
It is expected that GE Capital Corp. , a financial-services subsidiary of General Electric Co. , will provide much of the funding for the proposed leveraged buy-out of Merksamer , based in Sacramento , Calif .
A spokesman for GE Capital declined to comment .
GE Capital has a working relationship with L.J. Hooker .
It is providing $ 50 million in emergency financing to the company and has agreed to buy as much as $ 75 million in receivables from B. Altman & Co. and Bonwit Teller , L.J. Hooker 's two fully owned department-store chains .
Sam Merksamer , chief executive officer of the nationwide jewelry chain , and Sanford Sigoloff , chief executive of L.J. Hooker Corp. , both declined to comment .
Currently , Mr. Merksamer owns 20 % of the company ; L.J. Hooker acquired its 80 % interest in the firm in May 1986 .
At the time , the Merksamer chain had 11 stores in operation .
Today , there are 77 units , all located in shopping malls .
In recent weeks Mr. Merksamer has approached a number of his suppliers and asked them to provide letters of intent saying they will continue shipping merchandise to the chain following the buy-out , say those familiar with the situation .
This year , a number of retail leveraged buyouts have failed , causing jitters among suppliers , and Mr. Merksamer apparently wanted assurances that he wo n't have delivery problems .
For the year ended June 30 , 1989 , Merksamer Jewelers had $ 62 million of revenue and operating profit of $ 2.5 million .
According to those familiar with the situation , other bidders included Ratners Group PLC of London and Kay Jewelers Inc .
First Boston Corp. is advising L.J. Hooker on the sale of the Merksamer business .
Merksamer was the first in a series of retail acquisitions made by L.J. Hooker .
The sale of Merksamer Jewelers is subject to approval by Judge Tina Brozman of U.S. Bankruptcy Court .
The offer , which did n't include the Merksamer chain , is being reviewed by Mr. Sigoloff .
NBC , a leader in morning , prime-time and late night programs but an also-ran on Saturday mornings , when children rule the TV set , is contemplating getting out of the cartoon business .
He declined to elaborate .
The one-hour program will be repeated with updates throughout Saturday mornings .
`` We do n't need cartoons anymore .
They only accounted for 5 % , at best , of the station 's total revenues . ''
An NBC spokesman says the network will `` closely monitor '' the Sacramento situation , and says it is the only station to defect .
The youthful audience for Saturday programming is no longer dependent on the networks .
NBC has on previous occasions considered replacing cartoons with a Saturday version of `` Today , '' which is produced by NBC News .
NBC Productions or NBC News could supply the network with other Saturday morning shows , a move that would control costs .
In the year-earlier quarter , the chemicals company had net of $ 49.8 million , or 75 cents a share .
The company also cited the stronger dollar , which cuts the value of overseas profit when it is translated into dollars .
In addition , the company said , it was hurt by higher than previous-year costs for raw materials , though those costs have declined since the second quarter .
In this article , I was alleged to have said , `` Any patient with high-risk colon cancer is really getting short shrift if he 's not getting this therapy . ''
I did n't say this , and I 'm totally opposed to the philosophy expressed by the quote .
With this treatment we have reduced deaths in high-risk colon cancer by one-third -- but this leaves the two-thirds who are dying of cancer .
This is not nearly good enough .
I believe any physician who truly cares about cancer patients , both today and tomorrow , should offer the hope of something better than that .
My statement , read verbatim from a printed text available to all reporters attending the National Cancer Institute news conference , was the following : `` New clinical trials are already in operation seeking to improve these results .
These research protocols offer to the patient not only the very best therapy which we have established today but also the hope of something still better .
I feel any patient with high-risk cancer is getting short shrift if he is not offered this opportunity . ''
We have very exciting prospects for far more impressive advances in the treatment of colon cancer during the years immediately ahead .
The oil and auto industries , united in their dislike of President Bush 's proposal for cars that run on alternative fuels , announced a joint research program that could turn up a cleaner-burning gasoline .
A second phase of research , which is still being planned , will test reformulated gasolines on newer engine technologies now being developed for use in 1992 or 1993 cars .
There was no cost estimate for the second phase .
But David Hawkins , an environmental lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council , said the research appears merely to be a way to promote reformulated gasoline .
The Bush administration has said it will try to resurrect its plan when the House Energy and Commerce Committee takes up a comprehensive clean-air bill .
William Seidman , chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. , said Lincoln Savings & Loan Association should have been seized by the government in 1986 to contain losses that he estimated will cost taxpayers as much as $ 2 billion .
Mr. Seidman , who has been the nation 's top bank regulator , inherited the problems of Lincoln , based in Irvine , Calif. , after his regulatory role was expanded by the new savings-and-loan bailout law .
The inquiry also will cover the actions of Charles Keating Jr. , who is chairman of American Continental Corp. , Lincoln 's parent , and who contributed heavily to several U.S. senators .
Mr. Seidman told the committee that the Resolution Trust Corp. , the agency created to sell sick thrifts , has studied Lincoln 's examination reports by former regulators dating back to 1986 .
When Lincoln was seized by the government , for example , 15 % of its loans , or $ 250 million , were to borrowers who were buying real estate from one of American Continental 's 50 other subsidiaries , according to Mr. Seidman .
But the government did n't step in until six months ago , when thrift officials put Lincoln into conservatorship -- the day after American Continental filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from creditors .
The deposits that have been transferred to other subsidiaries are now under the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court .
`` I think it 's fairly clear -LCB- Mr. Keating -RCB- knew , '' that regulators were set to seize Lincoln , Mr. Seidman said .
Further investigation , he said , may result in further actions against Lincoln 's executives , said Mr. Seidman , `` including fraud actions . ''
Mr. Keating , for his part , has filed suit alleging that regulators unlawfully seized the thrift .
After the government lawsuit was filed against Lincoln , Sen. DeConcini returned the campaign contributions .
The senator 's spokesman said yesterday that he pushed for the sale of Lincoln because `` hundreds of Arizona jobs -LCB- at Lincoln -RCB- were on the line . ''
Senate Banking Committee Chairman Donald Riegle -LRB- D. , Mich . -RRB- has also returned contributions he received from Mr. Keating a year ago .
Sens. John Glenn -LRB- D. , Ohio -RRB- , John McCain , -LRB- R. , Ariz. -RRB- and Alan Cranston -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- also received substantial contributions from Mr. Keating and sought to intervene on behalf of Lincoln .
House Banking Committee Chairman Henry Gonzalez -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- said Sen. Cranston volunteered to appear before the House committee , if necessary .
But a committee staff member said the panel is unlikely to pursue closely the role of the senators .
At the hearing , Mr. Seidman said the RTC has already pumped $ 729 million into Lincoln for liquidity .
He also held out little hope of restitution for purchasers of $ 225 million in American Continental subordinated debt .
`` We have no plans at this time to pay off those notes , '' he said .
Eastern Airlines ' creditors committee , unhappy with the carrier 's plans for emerging from bankruptcy-law proceedings , asked its own experts to devise alternate approaches to a reorganization .
Representatives of the accounting firm of Ernst & Young and the securities firm of Goldman , Sachs & Co. , hired by creditors to consult on Eastern 's financial plans , told the committee in a private meeting yesterday that Eastern 's latest plan to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection is far riskier than an earlier one which won the creditors ' approval .
According to one person present at the meeting , Eastern 's new plan is financially `` overly optimistic . ''
Asked about the consultants ' reports , an Eastern spokeswoman said `` we totally disagree . ''
At a later news conference here , Frank Lorenzo , chairman of Eastern 's parent Texas Air Corp. , said Eastern was exceeding its goals for getting back into operation and predicted it would emerge from Chapter 11 protection from creditors early next year , operating with more service than it originally had scheduled .
He insisted , as he has before , that creditors would be paid in full under the plan .
Mr. Lorenzo made no mention of creditors ' negative response to his plan .
`` We 're in the process of discussing an amended plan with the creditors and anticipate filing that amended plan shortly , '' Mr. Lorenzo told reporters .
In July , Eastern and its creditors agreed on a reorganization plan that called for Eastern to sell $ 1.8 billion in assets and to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection at two-thirds its former size .
But after selling off pieces such as its East Coast shuttle , its Philadelphia hub and various planes , Eastern hit a stumbling block .
It could n't sell its South American routes , one of the major assets marked for disposal .
Those routes , valued by the creditors ' professionals at about $ 400 million , were to be sold to AMR Corp. 's American Airlines .
A last-minute snag in negotiations with AMR , over an unrelated lawsuit between American and another Texas Air unit , caused the deal to collapse .
Eastern ultimately decided it would have to keep and operate the routes itself , which would leave it with less cash for its reorganization .
It also would leave Eastern a bigger carrier than the scaled-down one proposed under the initial plan .
Those changes in its condition meant the reorganization plan previously presented to creditors would have to be revamped .
Since then , Eastern has been negotiating with creditors over revisions , but the creditors committee has been having problems with the revisions .
The committee has two groups of experts it calls on to analyze Eastern 's plans .
Both said the new plan would n't work .
Ernst & Young said Eastern 's plans will miss its projections of earnings before interest , tax and depreciation by $ 100 million , and that Eastern 's plan presented no comfort level , according to a source present at yesterday 's session .
Experts from Goldman Sachs estimated Eastern would miss the same mark by $ 120 million to $ 135 million , the source said .
The experts said they expected Eastern would have to issue new debt to cover its costs , and that it would generate far less cash than anticipated .
Other costs also would increase , including maintenance , because Eastern has an older fleet .
At the news conference , Mr. Lorenzo and Eastern President Phil Bakes presented a far rosier assessment .
Mr. Bakes declined to give out Eastern 's daily losses , but said he did n't expect Eastern would have to dip into the cash from asset sales currently held in escrow .
These accounts hold several hundred million dollars , primarily from asset sales .
The plan Eastern hopes to pursue , he said , calls for Eastern to have $ 390 million in cash by year 's end .
Both he and Mr. Lorenzo predicted that plan might be confirmed in January .
As to negotiations with creditors , Mr. Lorenzo said in remarks after the conference `` we 'll have to see how they -LCB- talks -RCB- come along . ''
However , he added , `` it 's not a requirement that the plan be accepted by creditors .
It must be accepted by the court . ''
Under bankruptcy law , Eastern has exclusive rights for a certain period to develop its own reorganization plan .
That deadline has been extended once and could be extended again .
If Eastern can get creditor support , court confirmation of its plan could be relatively swift .
But creditors are free to press for court approval of their own plan , or the court could ignore both sides and draw its own .
In any event , some people familiar with the case question whether the court will act by January as forecast by Mr. Lorenzo and Mr. Bakes .
Eastern sought bankruptcy-law protection a few days after a crippling strike began March 4 .
He projected it would be operating about 1,000 flights a day by late spring , only slightly fewer than the carrier 's old volume of 1,050 a day .
The method of calculating the 20 % tax , paid if it exceeds tax figured the regular way , is due for a change in 1990 , thanks to 1986 's tax act .
But most experts agree that the concept that is to be introduced drags in great complexity ; they have been trying to head it off this year .
It lets victims elect to deduct casualty losses on either 1989 or amended 1988 returns , whichever offers the larger tax benefit ; they have until April 16 to choose .
A loss -- after insurance recoveries -- is deductible only to the extent that it exceeds $ 100 and that the year 's total losses exceed 10 % of adjusted gross income ; victims may pick the year when income is lower and deductions higher .
In filing an original -LRB- not amended -RRB- return , a couple should consider whether damaged property is owned jointly or separately and whether one spouse has larger income ; that may determine whether they should file jointly or separately .
Interest will be imposed on unpaid taxes , but late-payment penalties on the returns will be waived if the balance due and paid is 10 % or less of the liability .
But the Tax Court said the limitations were reasonable and realistic and allowed the deductions .
Brown 's story :
The IRS offered no evidence of hidden sources of taxable income , so Judge Shields rejected its claims .
BRIEFS :
The court rejected his incredible claims , denied his deductions , and imposed a negligence penalty ... .
Rep. Schaefer -LRB- R. , Colo. -RRB- entered a bill to exempt from tax rewards for tips leading to the arrest of violent criminals .
`` This , '' says Ms. Peterson , `` is what it 's all about . ''
From about 200,000 six years ago , the number of mountain bikes in the U.S. is expected to grow to 10 million in 1990 .
At least half that growth will have come in the past three years alone .
Most other states have enacted similar bans .
The bikes are unwelcome on trails in national parks .
Sierra has been instrumental in securing a number of the California bans .
It has been waging an all-out campaign to beat back a proposal , pushed by Utah bike groups , to allow the cycles in federally designated wilderness areas , where they are now prohibited .
Yet Sierra 's hard-line stance has created something of a rift in the organization , which estimates that 17 % of its 500,000 members own mountain bikes .
`` I think we 're making progress . ''
When the bikes first entered mass production in 1981 , they were dismissed as a fad .
Last year , 25 % of the 10 million bicycles sold in the U.S. were mountain bikes .
In California , a bellwether market , they accounted for more than 80 % of all bike sales .
The majority of the bikes never even make it into the high country .
By one estimate , everyone here under 50 owns at least one bike .
The following issues were recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission :
Canada 's Province of Nova Scotia , shelf offering of up to $ 550 million of debentures .
Stock-market tremors again shook bond prices , while the dollar turned in a mixed performance .
Early yesterday , investors scrambled to buy Treasury bonds for safety as stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a replay of Friday .
But stocks later recovered , erasing most of their early declines .
That cut short the rally in Treasury bonds and depressed prices moderately below late Monday 's levels .
Long-term Treasury issues declined about half a point , or $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount .
`` The stock market clearly is leading the bond markets , '' said Jack Conlon , an executive vice president at Nikko Securities .
`` People are breathing a major sigh of relief that the world did n't end Monday morning '' or yesterday .
Gold , a closely watched barometer of investor anxiety , was little changed .
The dollar initially fell against other major currencies on news that the U.S. trade deficit surged in August to $ 10.77 billion .
But the dollar later rebounded , finishing slightly higher against the yen although slightly lower against the mark .
Federal Reserve officials sent another signal of their determination to shore up investor confidence .
In an apparent attempt to keep a lid on short-term interest rates , the Fed once again pumped money into the banking system .
But the Fed move was a small gesture , traders said .
Fed officials appear reluctant to ease their credit grip any further because a bold move does n't appear necessary , several investment managers said .
The Fed has allowed a key short-term interest rate to decline about one-quarter percentage point .
The federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks has been hovering around 8 3/4 % , down from 9 % previously .
Although stocks have led bonds this week , some traders predict that relationship will reverse during the next few weeks .
Nikko 's Mr. Conlon fears a huge wave of Treasury borrowing early next month will drive down Treasury bond prices .
In major market activity : Treasury bond prices fell .
The yield on 30-year Treasury bonds climbed back above 8 % , ending the day at 8.03 % .
The dollar was mixed .
The Consumer News and Business Channel cable network and U.S. News & World Report have formed a joint venture to produce cable program versions of special issues of the magazine .
The programs will run on the cable network the Sunday evening immediately prior to the release of the special issue of U.S. News & World Report .
CNBC is a joint venture of the National Broadcasting Co. , a unit of General Electric Co. , and Cablevision System Corp .
Advertisers will be offered an advertising package , which for a single price , will include time on the CNBC program and ad pages in the special guides .
CNBC will produce six , one-hour programs , beginning in April 1990 .
Other programs and special issues will be based on themes of health , jobs , personal finance , the best colleges , and investments .
The programs will be written and produced by CNBC , with background and research provided by staff from U.S. News & World Report .
-- George O. Ludcke .
Those supermarket tabloids Make me feel slow Because I still have n't seen
Daffynition
Sales rose 9 % to $ 2.57 billion from $ 2.36 billion .
Results for the 1989 third quarter and nine months include a pretax loss of $ 33 million from the company 's business improvement and refocusing program , and a gain of $ 49 million on the sale of a subsidiary 's common stock .
Forest-products operations strengthened in the third quarter , while paper operations were dogged by higher costs , soft newsprint exports and a strong Japanese yen .
Some competing forest-products firms have recently reported improved results due to strong pulp and paper business .
Weyerhaeuser 's pulp and paper operations were up for the nine months , but full-year performance depends on the balance of operating and maintenance costs , plus pricing of certain products , the company said .
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter , the company said export log and lumber markets will be weak , while panel and plywood markets will be stronger .
Pulp and paper performance depends on cost and price variables , the company said .
Bankers Trust New York Corp. became the latest major U.S. bank to increase reserves for its loans to less-developed countries , making a $ 1.6 billion third-quarter addition to its provision .
The bank also said it expects to report a $ 1.42 billion loss for the third quarter and a loss for the full year .
The new reserves bring the company 's provision for loans to Third World countries to $ 2.6 billion , or 85 % of Bankers Trust 's medium and long-term loans to these countries .
`` Step up to the plate and take the big swing .
Get the problem behind you and do n't look back , '' said James J. McDermott , analyst at Keefe , Bruyette & Woods , in approving of the move .
Bankers Trust `` has had the capacity to do this for some time , '' the analyst said .
He expects Citicorp to take a similar step this year .
Three other major U.S. banks posted earnings increases .
Wells Fargo & Co. of San Francisco posted a 17 % jump .
PNC Financial Corp. , the parent of Pittsburgh National Bank , reported net income climbed 9.8 % , while net for Banc One Corp. of Columbus , Ohio , grew 3.8 % .
Citicorp
Analysts were only slightly disappointed by Citicorp 's numbers .
Earnings from the bank 's global consumer business grew 27 % .
`` The consumer business continues to drive the earnings stream , '' said Mr. McDermott of Keefe , Bruyette & Woods .
Corporate finance and trading results in member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development were `` relatively flat , sometimes choppy , '' the bank said , and profit for the area sank 27 % .
Overall , the portfolio narrowed its quarterly loss to $ 70 million from $ 80 million a year earlier .
`` People were waiting to see if we would take an additional provision '' for medium-term and long-term loans to less-developed countries , a Citicorp spokesman said .
But he reiterated the bank 's position that it is comfortable with the current level of $ 2.6 billion , covering about 30 % of the $ 8.9 billion of such loans outstanding .
Ronald I. Mandle , analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. , called Citicorp 's venture-capital gains of $ 93 million before taxes `` strong . ''
A `` concerning '' item the analyst cited was the 10 % jump in expenses , which the bank attributes to costs of expanding both its consumer credit-card operations and its overseas branch business .
Citicorp 's spokesman said , however , that the bank is maintaining those expenses in proportion to revenue growth .
Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo continued to generate one of the highest profit margins among major banks , minimizing a drop in net interest margin with 13 % third-quarter growth in high-yielding business loans and similar growth in mortgages .
The combination of solid loan growth with tight expense control gave Wells Fargo a 1.25 % return on average assets for the quarter , about 40 % higher than Security Pacific 's and a profit ratio matched by only two or three other major banks in the U.S. .
Wells Fargo 's return on equity increased to 24.4 % from 23.8 % .
But the amount was still 39 % higher than the year-ago level , and 25 % higher as a percentage of total loans .
That trend , and Wells Fargo 's heavy exposure to leveraged buy-outs , are about the only worries analysts have about Wells Fargo 's financial picture .
Manufacturers Hanover
Manufacturers Hanover said that excluding the addition to its reserves , certain tax benefits , and a one-time $ 16 million gain on the sale of an interest in a foreign leasing company , third-quarter earnings were $ 75 million .
The comparable year-earlier number was $ 56 million , a spokesman said .
The bank 's additional provisions brought reserves for loans to less-developed countries to $ 2.4 billion , covering 36 % of its medium and long-term loans outstanding to these nations .
The net interest margin - the difference between the bank 's cost of funds and what it receives as interest payments -- improved in the quarter , as did certain areas of wholesale banking .
Fees from syndicating loans dropped 48 % , to $ 21 million .
`` We did n't take part in a lot of deals '' in the quarter `` because their credit quality was poor , '' the spokesman said .
Expenses unrelated to interest rose 5.4 % , to $ 541 million .
PNC Financial
PNC Financial cited higher income from sources unrelated to interest and said it continues to cut costs .
Net interest income in the third quarter edged up 1.4 % , to $ 317.7 million .
Trust income grew 15 % , to $ 49.9 million , while service charges , fees and commissions increased 22 % , to $ 79.4 million .
Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi set a date next month for general elections that some analysts say could cost him and his ruling Congress -LRB- I -RRB- Party control of the government .
Other analysts say the Indian leader could retain control with a slim majority or be forced to rule as the dominant partner in a coalition with other parties .
The biggest certainty is that the elections will be a vote for or against Mr. Gandhi and his five years in power -- five years of ups and downs , promises and disappointments and wide fluctuations in popularity .
Yesterday , four days after an unusual parliamentary defeat for the ruling party , Mr. Gandhi called elections for the lower house of Parliament on Nov. 22 and 24 .
The elections will be held in different states on one of the two days .
-LRB- The lower house 's five-year term expires in January ; the Parliament 's upper house is appointed . -RRB-
The elections will be a rigorous test for the 45-year-old prime minister and Congress -LRB- I -RRB- , which in various forms has ruled for 40 of India 's 42 years of independence .
His early promises to make India a modern nation remain bogged down in bloated bureaucracy .
His pledge to clean up local administration and Indian politics , including his own party , went unfulfilled .
Some analysts predict that disappointment in Mr. Gandhi 's spent pledge to reduce corruption and heavy-handed local government will crest at the polls .
This could be a big protest against an administrative failure . ''
Even if the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- retains control of the government , Mr. Gandhi 's ability to push through major initiatives might be hobbled by a thinner majority .
In 1984 , the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- captured 405 seats , the largest victory in the history of Indian democracy .
The landslide was fueled by panic that prevailed in India at the time .
In 1977 , Mrs. Gandhi was thrown out of office after her 19-month emergency rule , and in 1980 , after her successors made a mess of their three years in power , she was restored to office .
But if the opposition remains fractured , the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- could win a small majority , or lead a coalition government .
The contract was negotiated by the countries ' two prime ministers , and was supposed to be free of commissions or agents ' costs .
In April 1987 , evidence surfaced that commissions were paid .
The opposition charged that the money was used to bribe Indian government officials , an allegation denied by Mr. Gandhi 's administration .
But many of his statements on the issue in Parliament subsequently were proven wrong by documentary evidence .
It was the first time in 20 years that such government bills were defeated .
But the average Indian had tremendous hope in the youthful leader and his promise to make both government and the ruling party more effective and less corrupt .
His failures in those two areas deeply , and sometimes bitterly , disappointed many Indians .
`` We do n't like the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- , '' says Sooraji Jath , a farmer in the western state of Gujarat .
`` The Congress government is taking the farmers ' bread and not giving us any support .
When there are well problems , light problems , road problems , the government tells us to forget it . ''
The greatest thing going for Mr. Gandhi and the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- Party is the poor reputation of the opposition .
Many Indians fear a repeat of that experience .
March 24 , 1986 :
April 16 , 1987 :
June 1 , 1987 :
Sweden 's National Audit Bureau releases its report confirming payment of about $ 40 million to unidentified Indians .
Aug. 6 , 1987 :
Prime Minister Gandhi tells the Indian Parliament , `` ... neither I nor any member of my family has received any consideration in these transactions .
That is the truth . ''
Aug. 26 , 1987 :
April 22 , 1988 :
April 26 , 1988 :
A parliamentary investigative committee dominated by the Congress -LRB- I -RRB- Party concludes that there were no middlemen in the deal and no payment to any Indian individual or company .
July 18 , 1989 :
Sept. 15 , 1989 :
His recommendation was rejected by the government .
Additional shares may be bought or sold in the open market , in private transactions or otherwise , depending on market conditions and other factors .
The inverse trading relationship between bonds and stocks was interrupted yesterday as bonds fell despite a modest decline in stock prices .
But bond investors continue to keep a close watch on the jittery stock market .
In early trading , investors were bidding bond prices higher as stocks tumbled and fears mounted that Friday 's stock market debacle would be repeated .
But a partial recovery in the Dow Jones Industrial Average , which had been down more than 60 points in midmorning , dashed those expectations .
Treasury bonds also were hurt late in the day by a $ 4 billion offering by the Tennessee Valley Authority and the prospect of a huge amount of new agency debt .
`` Bond investors were hoping that stock prices would continue to fall , '' said Roger Early , a vice president at Federated Investors Inc. , Pittsburgh .
`` When stocks stabilized , that was a disappointment . ''
Meanwhile , for the second straight day , the bond market paid little attention to the Federal Reserve 's open market operations .
The move was meant to keep a lid on interest rates and to boost investor confidence .
`` The intervention has been friendly , meaning that they really did n't have to do it , '' said Maria Fiorini Ramirez , money-market economist at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc .
She said a more aggressive move was n't needed .
The Fed also appears reluctant to ease credit conditions further .
It already has allowed the closely watched federal funds rate to decline 1/4 percentage point to about 8 3/4 % from its previous target level of about 9 % .
The rate , which banks charge each other on overnight loans , is considered an early signal of changes in Fed policy .
It ended at about 8 11/16 % yesterday , but was as low as 8 1/2 % Monday .
The Treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1/2 point , or over $ 5 for each $ 1,000 face amount , while the yield moved above 8 % for the first time since Thursday .
Investment-grade corporate , municipal and mortgage-backed securities also fell .
But most junk bonds closed unchanged after opening slightly higher on bargain-hunting by institutional investors .
Some so-called high-quality junk issues , such as R.H. Macy & Co. 's 14 1/2 % subordinated debentures , rose .
The Macy 's issue closed up about one point at a bid price of 97 .
The TVA 's public debt offering was its first in 15 years .
Strong investor demand prompted it to boost the size of the issue from $ 3 billion .
Traders said hedging related to the TVA pricing also pressured Treasury bonds .
Today the Treasury will announce the size of its next two-year note sale and Resolution Funding Corp. will announce details of its first bond offering .
Some traders estimate $ 9.75 billion of new two-year Treasurys will be sold next week , and they expect Refcorp to offer $ 4 billion to $ 6 billion of long-term `` bailout '' bonds .
Refcorp was created to help fund the thrift bailout .
Another agency issue came to market yesterday .
The Office of Finance of the Federal Home Loan Banks said it priced a four-part $ 2.27 billion bond offering for the banks to yield from 8.125 % to 8.375 % .
The release of several economic reports had little impact on the market , including a report that the U.S. trade deficit expanded to a surprisingly wide $ 10.77 billion in August , up from a revised $ 8.24 billion in July .
The August gap was expected to have expanded to $ 9.1 billion .
Treasury Securities
Treasury securities were essentially flat to about 1/2 point lower .
The benchmark 30-year bond was quoted late at 100 28/32 to yield 8.04 % , compared with 101 19/32 to yield 7.97 % Monday .
The latest 10-year notes were quoted late at 99 25/32 to yield 8.01 % , compared with 100 1/32 to yield 7.97 % .
Short-term rates increased .
The discount rate on three-month bills rose to 7.52 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.75 % .
The rate on six-month bills rose to 7.53 % for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.92 % .
Corporate , Other Issues
Investment-grade corporate bonds ended 1/4 to 1/2 point lower , while most junk bonds ended unchanged .
The TVA 's huge $ 4 billion offering dominated attention in the new-issue market .
The TVA , which operates one of the nation 's largest electric power systems , is a corporation wholly owned by the U.S. government .
Yesterday 's bond sale was part of a $ 6.7 billion refinancing plan to pay off high-interest debt the TVA owes the Federal Financing Bank , an arm of the Treasury .
Mortgage-Backed Securities
The revival of the real estate mortgage investment conduit market reflected the relative calm in the mortgage market after two days of volatile trading .
Dealers noted that it 's difficult to structure new Remics when prices are moving widely .
The two Remics priced were a $ 500 million Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. issue underwritten by Salomon Brothers Inc. and a $ 350 million Federal National Mortgage Association deal underwritten by Greenwich Capital Markets .
The Remic issuance supported prices of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae securities , which held up better than Government National Mortgage Association securities during an afternoon sell-off .
Ginnie Mae 9 % securities for November delivery ended at 97 29/32 , down 7/32 ; 9 1/2 % securities at 99 31/32 , down 6/32 ; and 10 % securities at 101 29/32 , down 5/32 .
Freddie Mac 9 % securities were at 97 5/32 , down 3/32 .
Municipals
Prices of pre-refunded municipal bonds were capped by news that Chemical Securities Inc. , as agent for a customer , will accept bids today for two large lists of bonds that include many such issues .
Meanwhile , several new issues were priced .
A Chemical Securities group won a $ 100 million Oregon general obligation veterans ' tax note issue due Nov. 1 , 1990 .
The 6 3/4 % notes yield 6.25 % .
Foreign Bonds
West German government bond prices took a wild roller-coaster ride , pulled down by Monday 's U.S. stock market gains then up by a wider-than-expected U.S. trade deficit and falling U.S. stock prices .
British government bonds surged on renewed volatility in the stock market .
The Treasury 11 3/4 % bond due 2003/2007 rose 23/32 to 112 10/32 to yield 10.03 % .
But Japanese bonds ended weaker .
The benchmark No. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended on brokers ' screens at a price of 96 , off 0.15 point to yield 5.27 % .
A House-Senate conference approved an estimated $ 67 billion fiscal 1990 spending bill that provides a 28 % increase for space research and development and incorporates far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market .
The current ceiling on home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration would be increased to $ 124,875 .
Separately , the bill gives authority to the Bush administration to facilitate the refinancing of federally subsidized loans for low-income and moderate-income homeowners .
The second provision , affecting so-called 235 mortgages , has met strong opposition from investment bankers represented by the Public Securities Association .
And a squad of influential former Senate aides employed by the Wall Street firm Salomon Brothers came to the Capitol in a vain attempt to strip the provision .
The government currently is subsidizing an estimated 23,000 loans above 11 % under the 235 program , and however disruptive to private investors , the refinancing is expected to yield at least $ 15 million in savings in fiscal 1990 .
This sum has been guarded jealously by appropriators anxious to offset spending elsewhere , and conservative Sen. Phil Gramm cast the fight as a populist stand against monied interests .
The action came as the administration won final congressional approval of $ 9 million in assistance for elections scheduled in Nicaragua in February .
The Senate had refused late Friday to invoke cloture and limit debate , but behind the bipartisan leadership , a solid majority took shape yesterday and brushed aside amendments seeking to cut the total package or steer it away from direct aid to political parties .
Within the appropriations conference yesterday , the $ 67 billion measure is the second largest of the annual domestic spending bills and covers a disparate collection of accounts for science , housing , veterans and the environment .
The decision to raise the ceiling on FHA home loans still faces strong opposition in the House .
But it is driven by the same fiscal pressures that have forced lawmakers to resort to various bookkeeping devices to juggle as much as $ 1 billion in spending that would otherwise put the bill over budget .
These costs will complicate the budget picture in fiscal 1991 , and the measure further commits Congress to a set of costly projects , including the first construction funds for the space station .
Similarly , the House agreed to add back $ 62 million to continue work on the advanced communications technology satellite , being developed by General Electric Co .
And while setting a statutory limit of $ 1.6 billion on the automated space probe , the conference appropriated $ 30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission , a successor to the Voyager space probe .
To an unusual degree , the massive bill has become a vehicle for lawmakers to earmark funds for projects in home states .
While the practice was discouraged in the past , the conference agreement is laced with veterans ' hospitals , environmental projects and urban grants designated for specific communities .
The most striking example yesterday may have been in community development funds , where the two houses had separately approved a total of 27 projects valued at $ 20 million , and the conference added 15 more valued at $ 8 million to ostensibly preserve `` balance '' between the House and Senate .
Yesterday 's conference agreement is the second major bill to emerge from negotiations this week , as appropriators approved a fiscal 1990 transportation bill late Monday that includes a sweeping ban on smoking on most domestic airline flights .
An exemption will remain for flights longer than six hours to Hawaii and Alaska , but estimates by the tobacco industry yesterday indicate all but about 30 flights would be covered .
And after weeks of delay , the appropriations process is beginning to take some final shape .
Defense and foreign aid are the two most critical areas remaining from the administration 's standpoint .
And among domestic programs , the most serious threat is White House opposition to abortion riders attached to separate bills funding the District of Columbia and Department of Health and Human Services .
Markets usually get noticed because they soar or plunge .
The settlement prices of the December , February and April gold contracts were even with Monday 's final prices .
The other months posted advances of 10 cents to 20 cents an ounce .
Yesterday , gold traded within a narrow range .
Gold tried to rally on Monday but ran into the same situation that has subdued gold prices for more than a year : selling by gold producers , who want to fix the highest possible price for their gold .
`` Producers at the moment regard that area a good one in which to sell gold . ''
`` Investors in the U.S. and Europe are comfortable with the actions of the -LCB- Federal Reserve -RCB- in its willingness to supply liquidity to financial system , which helped the stock market rebound on Monday , '' he said .
There is n't any rush on the part of investors in the West to buy gold , he said .
`` They still bear the memory of October 1987 , when they bought gold after the stock market crashed and ended up losing money because gold prices subsequently fell , '' Mr. Nichols said .
`` It 's an experience they do n't want to repeat . ''
At the moment gold traders are n't concerned about inflation , he said , and as for the dollar , `` gold 's association with the currency has been diminishing recently so drops in the currency are n't having much impact on gold . ''
There is little incentive to buy gold because if the stock market goes higher , it may be just a false alarm .
The most remarkable feature about yesterday 's action was that the price of roughly $ 370 an ounce was regarded as attractive enough by gold producers around the world to aggressively sell gold , Mr. Mehta said .
`` I do n't know what it means over the long run , but for the short term , it appears that gold producers are grateful for the $ 10 or so that gold has risen over the past week or so , '' he said .
Previously , he noted , gold producers tended to back off from a rising gold market , letting prices rise as much as possible before selling .
Mr. Mehta observed that the U.S. merchandise trade deficit , which rose sharply in August , according to yesterday 's report , has been having less and less impact on the gold market .
`` The dollar has n't reacted much to it , so gold has n't either , '' he said .
In other commodity markets yesterday :
ENERGY :
Crude oil prices rose slightly in lackluster activity as traders in the pits tried to assess action in the stock market .
Since stock market indexes plummeted last Friday , participants in all markets have been wary .
When traders become confident that the stock market has stabilized , oil prices are expected to rise as supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration .
Crude oil for November delivery edged up by 16 cents a barrel to $ 20.75 a barrel .
Heating oil prices also rose .
November gasoline slipped slightly .
SUGAR :
Futures prices rose on a report that Cuba may seek to postpone some sugar shipments .
According to an analyst , Cuba ca n't meet all its shipment commitments and has asked Japan to accept a delay of shipments scheduled for later this year , into early next year .
`` Japan is perceived as a wealthy nation that can turn elsewhere in the world market and buy the sugar , '' the analyst said .
It was the possibility of this demand that helped firm prices , the analyst said .
Another analyst noted that Cuba has been deferring shipments in recent years .
`` To the professionals in the trade it did n't cause much surprise .
The prices of most livestock futures contracts had dropped sharply Monday .
GRAINS AND SOYBEANS :
Traders are especially sensitive to reports of possible U.S. soybean sales because U.S. exports are lagging .
Since Sept. 1 , about 13 million fewer bushels of U.S. soybeans have been sold overseas than for the same period last year .
Corn futures prices rose slightly while wheat prices settled mixed .
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. , fretting about increasing competitive pressure on Ryder , placed about $ 2.8 billion in company securities under review for possible downgrade .
Moody 's said it is assessing the strategies Ryder 's management may follow in addressing significant challenges in some major markets .
The rating agency said it is focusing especially on the transportation service company 's efforts to control costs , improve margins and enhance its competitive position in its primary business , vehicle leasing and rental .
The nations of southern Africa know a lot about managing elephants ; their herds are thriving .
But the nations of Europe and North America have decided they know better .
The Greens from the First World wanted a morality play , not a negotiation .
Fortunately , the nations of southern Africa have n't totally surrendered their sovereignty .
That 's not fair ; they 're not all fat .
The Small Business Administration has received more than 5,000 formal requests for disaster loans because of the hurricane .
The disaster fund is replenished by loan repayments .
The State Development Board set up a Hugo Hotline to accept business-to-business help .
Last week , the U.S. Chamber of Commerce began using its national TV show to seek help , such as equipment , for business owners .
Local bankers and accountants help applicants fill out forms .
And the group will urge that the federal government pre-empt state rules on what must be covered by employers ' health insurance .
The Section 89 victory could have a downside by making it harder to oppose lawmakers on other health proposals .
Even though the announcement was true in the end , it was issued without the senator 's permission .
`` It was a timing mistake . ''
Small-business suppliers want prisons to stop getting high priority , especially as prison production grows with swelling inmate populations .
Last year , the prisons ' sales to the Pentagon totaled $ 336 million .
But the warranty on simpler parts would be lowered to two years or 24,000 miles .
The garage owners say they would benefit because car owners would be less likely to go back to dealers for the simpler repairs after two years .
The repair shops are n't united , however .
Shops represented by the Automotive Service Industry Association and the Motor Equipment Manufacturers Association oppose any increase in warranty length .
The House Energy Committee will debate the issue later this month .
SMALL TALK :
He will remain on the Banc One board .
The Treasury plans to raise $ 1.55 billion in new cash with the sale Monday of about $ 15.6 billion in short-term bills to redeem $ 14.1 billion in maturing bills .
The offering will be divided evenly between 13-week and 26-week bills maturing on Jan. 25 , 1990 , and April 26 , 1990 , respectively .
Tenders for the bills , available in minimum $ 10,000 denominations , must be received by 1 p.m. EDT Monday at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches .
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered ratings on about $ 650 million of Beatrice Co. debt , citing the closely held Chicago food concern 's proposed recapitalization .
A Beatrice spokesman did n't return calls seeking comment .
When the Soviets announced their last soldier had left Afghanistan in February , the voices of skepticism were all but drowned out by an international chorus of euphoria .
It was `` the Soviets ' Vietnam . ''
The Kabul regime would fall .
A resistance government would walk into Kabul .
But there never was a chance that the Afghan resistance would overthrow the Kabul regime quickly and easily .
Soviet leaders said they would support their Kabul clients by all means necessary -- and did .
The U.S. said it would fully support the resistance -- and did n't .
With the February 1987 U.N. accords `` relating to Afghanistan , '' the Soviet Union got everything it needed to consolidate permanent control .
The terms of the Geneva accords leave Moscow free to provide its clients in Kabul with assistance of any kind -- including the return of Soviet ground forces -- while requiring the U.S. and Pakistan to cut off aid .
But as soon as the accords were signed , American officials sharply reduced aid .
In February 1989 , when the Soviets said they had completed their pullout , the U.S. cut it further .
Not so the Soviets .
Since the troop withdrawal , Moscow has poured in an additional $ 200 to $ 300 million worth per month -- nearly $ 2 billion since February , equivalent to the total U.S. aid to the resistance in nine years .
By early May , Moscow had delivered , for example , 1,000 trucks , about 100 tanks , artillery and hundreds of other combat vehicles .
Moscow claims this is all needed to protect the Kabul regime against the guerrilla resistance .
But this is not the entire Afghan army , and it is no longer Kabul 's only military force .
Even if not all these forces are committed to the regime , they are now dependent on it .
And thousands of Afghan children have been taken to the Soviet Union , where they are hostage for the behavior of their families .
Since 1981 , Indian military advisers have been assisting the Kabul regime .
In preparation for the withdrawal , Moscow , Kabul and New Delhi signed two agreements for several hundred newly civilian Indian experts to replace some of the more visible Soviet military personnel .
Cuban military personnel also have been active in Afghanistan since 1979 .
The Soviets cut a deal with Iran : a future Iranian role in Afghanistan in exchange for Iranian support of Soviet policy .
Moreover , serious questions have been raised about the claimed withdrawal of Soviet forces .
This heavy outside support for the worst has undermined better , moderate leaders .
The wonder is not that the resistance has failed to topple the Kabul regime , but that it continues to exist and fight at all .
Last summer , in response to congressional criticism , the State Department and the CIA said they had resumed military aid to the resistance months after it was cut off ; but it is not clear how much is being sent or when it will arrive .
Indeed , U.S. officials have indicated to the press that the continuation of aid depends on what success the weakened resistance achieves by the end of this year .
Moscow and Kabul must have found that information useful .
No settlement negotiated by others can force the Afghan people to give up their struggle .
Yet , he asserts , `` you look around ... and you say , ` Who are the leaders ?
Who is going to carry the water ? ' ''
It is n't surprising that President Bush has n't led a crusade to pump up the Contras or SDI .
`` But it 's like kicking your father in the pants .
You hate to do it because he 's your father . ''
Mr. Burton says conservatives ' unhappiness with Mr. Bush 's cautious handling of the recent unsuccessful coup in Panama will make them more willing to speak out .
Of course , neither President Bush nor the Congress has actually abandoned the Contras or SDI .
But the administration has dropped any effort to win military aid for the rebels .
And the administration 's deal with Congress gives several congressional committees the right to cut off even humanitarian aid next month , though the committees are likely to let aid continue until February .
Most analysts think there 's little prospect the Contras can be a significant fighting force without U.S. arms , and after the February election their future in any form will be murky at best .
Instead of focusing on the Contras , Mr. Bush has switched to urging members of Congress -- most recently in a White House meeting yesterday -- to approve financing for the election campaign of political opponents of Nicaragua 's Sandinista government .
The administration continues to support SDI , or Star Wars , and it recently lobbied to persuade the Senate to restore some of the funds it planned to cut from the program .
And just last week , Defense Secretary Dick Cheney gave a strong speech listing `` compelling reasons '' to push ahead with SDI and saying he 'd urge President Bush to veto a defense bill with `` inadequate '' funding for the program .
But the strong pitch by Mr. Cheney may be too little too late to prevent damage to SDI .
The House has already voted for a deep cut in funding , and in the end the program 's backers will be hard pressed to head off some reduction in spending next year .
And while the defense secretary is speaking out , President Bush himself has n't launched any high-visibility campaign to drum up support , as President Reagan did .
More ominous to SDI supporters , the Bush administration appears to have tacitly accepted a new arms-control proposal from the Soviet Union that spells long-term trouble for Star Wars .
The Soviets have agreed to complete a treaty cutting strategic weapons without including restrictions on space-based defenses .
It will be hard down the road to persuade Congress to approve money for SDI plans if lawmakers fear those plans could scuttle a completed treaty .
`` The short of it is that the most hard-bitten among us can not get into too sour a mood with communism collapsing , '' says Mitchell Daniels , a former Reagan White House aide who now is president of the Hudson Institute .
Some activists are toiling to raise the profile of the two causes .
But they say they ca n't make much headway because of a lack of willing leaders in a position to turn the tide .
One longtime champion of these programs in Congress , Republican whip Newt Gingrich of Georgia , is distracted by questions about his ethics , conservatives note .
Other conservative champions , like Wyoming Republican Sen. Malcolm Wallop , a longtime SDI advocate , do n't have the clout with the Bush White House that they enjoyed with President Reagan .
Above all , though , proponents say neither the Contra nor the SDI cause can be pushed much further without more presidential support .
All this causes Rep. Hyde to muse about an alternate way to drum up more enthusiasm .
We 're sorry to report that on Monday President Bush accepted the resignation of William Allen as chairman of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission .
Mr. Allen , appointed by President Reagan , grew understandably tired of dealing with the guerrilla tactics of his enemies .
Rep. Don Edwards , the California Democrat , warned Mr. Allen that the speech would be `` outside the scope of the commission 's jurisdiction . ''
We 've actually read the speech .
Mr. Allen began it with a warning to his hosts , a California church group that opposes rights for homosexuals .
He said that other participants in the conference `` do not believe that the rights of Americans should be guaranteed to citizens who are homosexual , '' but that `` I mean to persuade you to the opposite view . ''
He says the title of his speech was to make his point that Americans have rights as individuals , not as members of certain select groups .
What 's really going on here ?
The three most important things to understand about Mr. Allen is that he is a black conservative intellectual -- a triple threat to the liberal establishment .
Mr. Allen quickly ran up against the liberal establishment again , which somehow elevated the vague concept of `` Indian rights '' above the rights of individual Indians .
Indeed , the gap is so large that Mr. Allen 's critics refuse to engage the debate .
Their effort to run him out of Washington is an embarrassment to the original purpose of their own movement .
We hope the next head of the Civil Rights Commission will be as brave as Mr. Allen in making the case for equality of civil rights .
He will continue as a director .
The appointments are part of a planned succession at the company .
Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev opened a major U.S. trade exhibition in Moscow and spent two hours touring some of the 150 stalls representing such blue-chip companies as General Motors Corp. , International Business Machines Corp. and Johnson & Johnson .
He did n't bite .
The exhibition by the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council underscores the growing U.S. interest in that nation 's market , though trade between the two countries is a minuscule $ 3 billion .
Officials said 91 companies from 14 countries , including the U.S. , had displays , down from about 260 firms from more than 20 countries at the last show in
Sale of the solution in concentrated form to Communist countries is prohibited by Japanese law and by international agreement .
The committee gave the government until Nov. 15 to revise the proposal .
The move reflected the growing confidence of the revamped Supreme Soviet .
It also intends to set up an international wholesale market with the Singapore government next May and to open a department store in Bangkok and shopping centers in Malaysia , Taiwan , Canada , Chicago and Seattle by December 1990 .
The chain currently has 90 retail outlets in Japan , seven in the U.S. , three in Hong Kong and a dozen more scattered around the globe .
Major European auction houses are turning increasingly to specialized sales .
`` Then there 'll be fair competition . ''
Instead of banning such shopping , the confederation proposed amending controls to be sure the privilege is n't abused ... .
British and Argentine diplomats opened talks in Madrid aimed at restoring ties severed because of their 1982 war over the Falkland Islands .
Polaroid Corp. , benefiting from staff-reduction savings , reported a strong gain in third-quarter operating results and net income of $ 29.9 million , or 40 cents a share , after preferred-stock requirements .
Analysts said the numbers were better than expectations , partly because of strong profit margins and a positive foreign-currency translation .
However , they said the company 's flat revenue was a disappointment , and an indication that sales of Polaroid 's new conventional film in the U.S. have been sluggish .
`` If you believe that a good performance next year is contingent on an acceleration of revenue , there is n't a lot here to base optimism on . ''
Alex Henderson , an analyst with Prudential-Bache , says Polaroid officials told him yesterday that U.S. sales of the company 's new conventional film product , introduced in the second quarter , have been `` disappointing '' after a promising start .
For the nine months , Polaroid reported earnings of $ 98.5 million , or $ 1.27 a share .
Last year , the company had a nine-month loss of $ 15.1 million , or 23 cents a share .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Polaroid closed at $ 47 , up $ 1.125 .
Why is the stock market suddenly so volatile ?
And , apparently , it is here to stay .
Richard Bernstein , senior quantitative analyst at Merrill Lynch & Co , says , `` My gut feel is that we 'll live with those swings for a while . ''
But most are linked by a single theme : liquidity -- the ability to get in and out of the market quickly .
And that , naturally , exacerbates price movements .
But when they discover that markets are n't always as liquid as they supposed -- markets jump .
And when many firms had to `` pay up , '' Monday 's sudden rally was sparked .
Trading in futures and options , some people believe , can add to volatility .
Investors believe they can can rely on such derivative securities to get in and out of the stock market without actually selling any stocks ; that is , a way of staying liquid even when they own stocks .
These and other modern trading methods `` tend to promote dramatic shifts in assets , '' says George Douglas , first vice president at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc .
`` It 's the idea that what goes in easy can come out easy '' -- so that bouts of higher volatility get built into the stock market .
It added another 5 % Monday before stocks rallied .
When they did , the firm reduced those stock holdings to about 70 % .
A classic example of institutions ' hunger for liquidity is portfolio insurance , now widely discredited .
Before the 1987 crash , an estimated $ 60 billion in institutional money was managed under this hedging technique .
The idea was to `` insure '' the value of a portfolio by selling futures when stock prices dropped -- eliminating the need to sell the stocks themselves .
But in October 1987 , when portfolio insurers rushed to sell at the same time , they overwhelmed both the stock and futures markets .
Others are doing `` index arbitrage '' a strategy of taking advantage of price discrepancies between stocks and futures .
Unlike traditional buy-and-hold strategies , all of the above require that market makers be on hand to provide liquidity by buying and selling stocks in a crunch .
But institutions say Wall Street brokerage firms are less willing to make markets .
Brokers do n't deny that .
Wall Street traders say that , with institutional brokerage commissions far lower than in the 1970s , securities firms ca n't afford to take the risk of buying too much stock .
`` The institutions have driven -LRB- commission -RRB- rates down to the point where it makes no sense to commit capital , '' says Tom Gallagher , senior executive vice president in charge of institutional trading at Oppenheimer & Co .
`` Why should I risk money for a guy for who 's paying me five cents a dance ?
All you get is risk . ''
Lack of liquidity can also result from exchange `` reforms . ''
Many traders say that `` circuit breakers '' put in place to damp volatility after the 1987 crash actually added to volatility when the stock market plunged Friday .
The circuit breakers caused a 30-minute shutdown in trading in Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index futures contract as the markets were falling .
`` It was scary to people thinking that they could n't get their trades off . ''
`` Then they said , ` By the way , two of the doors are locked . ' ''
The takeover mania also adds to volatility .
UAL Corp. is a good example .
Valued as a buy-out target , the airline stock was trading at nearly $ 280 a share .
When the deal ran into trouble , the stock tumbled ; it closed at $ 198 yesterday .
By contrast , traditional buy-and-hold investors are unlikely to generate sudden price moves .
Some experts say markets are n't as volatile as widely assumed .
Hans Stoll , finance professor at Vanderbilt University , says the current volatility in U.S. markets pales in comparison to the 1930s , decades before derivative instruments such as options and futures were introduced .
`` I just ca n't believe that the innovations in the financial market are causing any of this volatility , '' he says .
John J. Phelan Jr. , chairman of the Big Board , asserts that `` 1988 and 1989 have been two of the least volatile years in the last 30 or 40 years . ''
But the low average volatility Mr. Phelan is talking about is n't any comfort in a period of rapid stock-market moves like the past week .
Some people think the search for liquidity is fruitless .
It leads investors to focus on short-term price movements -- `` a game of musical chairs , '' he called it -- rather than on long-term fundamental valuation .
James A. White contributed to this article .
The National Aeronautics and Space Administration said a computer virus has infected one of its networks and is spreading anti-nuclear messages related to its Galileo space probe , which is to be launched today .
Mr. Redmond said the intruder had n't yet done any harm but the agency feared `` garbage data could be substituted for real data . ''
NASA said the Galileo worm had n't affected its computers or the computers of other government agencies because they had modified their systems to reject worms .
But Mr. Redmond said the worm hit universities that had n't elected to make the changes .
You talk of times of peace for all , and then prepare for war . ''
NASA estimated that , on Monday , about four computer centers were affected .
Yesterday , the number grew to 40 ; today the number is expected to grow to 100 .
Anti-nuclear activists have protested the launch of the Galileo space probe to Jupiter because it uses plutonium to generate the electricity needed to run the craft .
NASA said the Galileo worm had nothing to do with either delay .
It is now a commonplace that prosecutors are bringing criminal indictments in cases where until a few years ago only a civil action at most would have been brought .
Beginning in the early 19th century , with U.S. v. Hudson and Goodwin , the Supreme Court has repeatedly held that a judicial power to declare conduct to be against the public interest and hence criminal , while well established in British law , would usurp legislative authority under the doctrine of separation of powers .
That 's the conventional theory anyway .
Gradually , however , lower courts and prosecutors have pushed this definition to its breaking point .
Did Mr. Loeb seek personal gain -LRB- and if so , how -RRB- ?
A second illustration is supplied by the recent guilty plea entered by Robert Freeman , formerly head of arbitrage at Goldman , Sachs & Co .
The illegal `` tip '' of the bunny 's good nose was then largely a confirmation of rumors already known to many in the market .
Had the case gone to trial the same issues would have surfaced :
Was there a fiduciary breach in order to obtain personal gain ?
Did Mr. Freeman have notice of this ?
Finally , was the information material ?
Yet , all these issues are subsidiary to a more central issue : Who is and who should be making the criminal law here ?
Courts and legislatures make decisions in very different ways and are each susceptible to very different kinds of errors .
Thus , a court is poorly positioned to make judgments about the social utility of the expanded rule .
Can a security analyst call an investment banker to make certain that a seemingly improbable rumor is in fact false ?
In the past , not only would reputable professionals have rushed to check out such rumors with the company , but companies listed on the major stock exchanges were encouraged by the exchanges to respond openly to such inquiries from securities analysts .
Today , after Mr. Freeman 's plea , there is an uncertainty that is both unfair and inefficient .
The federal mail and wire fraud statutes provide even better illustrations of the rapid evolution of a federal common law of white-collar crime .
We are confronted less with a judicial power grab than with a legislative giveaway .
Mr. Coffee is a professor at Columbia Law School .
The year-earlier figure included a one-time gain of $ 59.9 million from the sale of Corning 's stakes in Japanese businesses .
Without the gain , operating profit was $ 64 million , or 71 cents a share .
Corning 's chairman and chief executive officer , James R. Houghton , said operating performance continued to be strong in the telecommunications and health and science segments .
Also , profit was hurt by the strength of the dollar overseas which negatively affected the company 's currency-exchange rate .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Corning closed at $ 38.50 , down 75 cents .
The lightning moves show that the stock market remains fragile and volatile -- ready to jump at the slightest rumor -- a few days after its shocking 190.58-point plunge .
UAL was watched closely and traded heavily .
The stock tumbled 24 7/8 to 198 on volume of 2.8 million shares .
The market is still very touchy about rumors and news on pending takeovers .
UAL , which is trying to reconstruct a buy-out bid that banks would n't finance , represents the future of one of the most powerful ingredients in the bull market - corporate restructuring .
An important element of this phenomenon -- the now-shaky market for junk bonds , used often to finance restructurings and takeovers -- continued to cast a pall over stocks .
The volatility wo n't end soon .
This Friday brings the `` double witching hour , '' Wall Street 's nickname for the monthly simultaneous expiration of a variety of stock index futures , index options and options on individual stocks .
`` We are in one of those phases where you are going to get a lot of volatile expiration action , '' said Donald Selkin , head of stock-index research at Prudential-Bache Securities .
Investors were buying yesterday , but they were running scared to premier blue chips such as Procter & Gamble , which jumped 3 3/8 to 127 .
Along the way , investors dumped takeover stocks and shares of banks that have leveraged-buy-out debt and risky real estate loans on their books .
Chase Manhattan , which sold 14 million additional shares at 40 1/8 Monday through an underwriting group led by Goldman Sachs , closed down 1/8 to 40 .
Citicorp fell 1/2 to 32 , and Manufacturers Hanover slipped 3/8 to 40 1/4 .
Chase and Citicorp 's Citibank are involved in the UAL buy-out financing .
Both Citicorp and Manufacturers Hanover reported earnings yesterday .
In the first hour of trading , about one million shares a minute changed hands on the Big Board as big stock-index arbitrage sell programs pushed prices lower .
-LRB- In stock-index arbitrage , traders buy or sell big baskets of stocks against offsetting positions in futures . -RRB-
Traders said many of the sell programs are positions being established ahead of this Friday 's expiration .
Aside from computer-guided selling , airline stocks took a beating as well .
AMR , the parent of American Airlines , continued to retreat in the wake of New York developer Donald Trump 's decision to withdraw his $ 120-a-share takeover bid .
The stock fell 3 1/4 to 73 1/4 on 3.4 million shares .
Delta Air Lines fell 1 7/8 to 67 7/8 , USAir Group dropped 3/4 to 40 1/4 , Southwest Airlines dipped 1/2 to 25 and Alaska Air Group slid 3/8 to 24 1/4 .
But Texas Air , the owner of Continental and Eastern airlines , bucked the group 's decline by rising 7/8 to 14 5/8 in American Stock Exchange trading .
Eastern said it is ahead of schedule in resuming its operations after filing earlier this year for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection , from which it expects to emerge early next year .
Philip Morris , the most active Big Board issue for the second consecutive session , was unchanged at 43 1/4 on 3.9 million shares .
Other blue-chip consumer issues also fared relatively well : PepsiCo rose 1 3/8 to 58 1/2 ; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3/4 ; McDonald 's also closed unchanged at 30 1/2 , and Merck rose 1/2 to 75 1/4 .
Broader averages also fell .
Among the takeover-related stocks that sold off yesterday were Disney , which closed down 2 1/8 to 121 1/4 .
Philips Industries tumbled 3/8 to 22 7/8 ; Hilton Hotels fell 2 1/2 to 92 and Holiday Corp. fell 2 1/8 to 69 7/8 .
Among other blue chips , Exxon gained 1/8 to 45 1/2 .
International Paper fell 1 3/8 to 51 1/2 , Union Carbide eased 7/8 to 25 , Chevron gained 1/8 to 64 , and Eastman Kodak closed down 3/4 to 44 1/4 .
The only industry group to show a gain from the industrial average 's record high on Oct. 9 is restaurants .
Trading also was heavy in the over-the-counter market .
`` Because there is a lot more volatility now , if guys see that they can make a quick 10 % or 15 % profit , they 'll take it . ''
Compaq Computer gained 2 1/8 to 103 3/4 on two million shares , reflecting market optimism about the prospects for its newly introduced notebook-sized computer .
B.F. Goodrich dropped 1 3/8 to 49 1/8 .
The company 's third-quarter earnings were below both analysts ' forecasts and the year-earlier level .
Blue Arrow added 1/2 to 17 1/4 .
Shearson Lehman Hutton began its coverage of the company with favorable ratings .
The company reported that earnings from operations for the September quarter were up about 25 % from a year earlier .
Bay Financial , which said it may be forced to file under Chapter 11 if it ca n't reach an agreement with its lenders to relieve its debt burden , plunged 1 3/8 to 2 1/8 .
Investment bankers and retailers said the turmoil on Wall Street may benefit managers who plan to bid for U.S. retailing units of the British firm because takeover prices may not be as high as before the recent correction .
Amex issues with big percentage price gains included two Eastern Air Lines preferred stocks , reacting to the news about improved recovery in flight schedules after the company filed for bankruptcy protection .
Eastern 's Class F preferred rose 12 % , or 1 1/4 , to 11 3/4 ; the Class E preferred gained 7 % , or 5/8 , to 10 1/4 .
On Monday , the company , a provider of environmental consulting services , reported a wider fiscal fourth-quarter loss and predicted a loss for its fiscal 1990 first quarter , but said a profit is expected for all of fiscal 1990 .
But its auditor , Ernst & Young , said Enviropact 's financial situation raises `` substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern . ''
Mission Resource Partners advanced 8 % , or 1 3/8 , to 18 7/8 .
And they wo n't consider such a dividend , the trust added , before results are available for the first quarter of 1990 .
In part , the trust cited the need to retain cash for possible acquisitions .
According to a spokesman , One Liberty will have paid out as dividends the required amount of its taxable income to maintain its legal status as a real estate investment trust .
Banks are continuing to go after individual investors , despite falling interest rates .
Yields on small-denomination certificates of deposit fell at about half the rate of so-called jumbo CDs this week , according to Banxquote Money Markets , an information service based here .
Investors can get slightly higher yields on deposits below $ 50,000 than they can on deposits of $ 90,000 and up .
`` Banks want to remain competitive , '' said Norberto Mehl , chairman of Banxquote .
`` October is a big rollover month and perhaps they anticipate greater demand ... among people leaving the stock market . ''
Some bankers are reporting more inquiries than usual about CDs since Friday .
Chemical said deposits Monday were about $ 5 million higher than usual and it expects more activity as investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock .
`` This is no time to be playing in the street ...
the Dow has more ups and downs than an elevator , '' proclaimed an advertisement Monday in New York newspapers , touting Lincoln Savings Bank 's one-year CD .
First National Bank of Boston , for example , is offering certain new depositors an extra quarter of a percentage point on six-month and 12-month CDs .
New York 's Citibank , for instance , increased the yield on small-denomination three-month CDs to 8 % from 7.9 % .
On average , however , three-month CDs at major banks are yielding a tenth of a percentage point less than they were a week ago .
Average yields on CDs aimed at individual investors fell less than half as much as yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday 's auction .
Six-month CDs of $ 50,000 and less yielded an average 8.02 % in the week ended Tuesday , down from 8.10 % , according to Banxquote .
The yield on six-month T-bills fell to 7.82 % on Monday , from 8.01 % the week before .
Meanwhile , the average yield on six-month CDs of more than $ 90,000 fell to 7.93 % in the latest week , according to Banxquote , from 8.10 % the week before .
CDs sold by major brokerage houses , which like jumbo CDs tend to closely follow interest rate trends , also posted larger drops in yields .
A six-month , broker-sold CD , for example , was yielding an average 8.09 % in the latest week , a fifth of a percentage point lower than the week before .
In late April , when interest rates were at their recent highs , short-term CDs sold by brokers were offering yields half a percentage point or more higher than banks .
CD yields are generally expected to fall further in coming weeks .
`` What happened in the stock market and the bigger trade deficit '' reported yesterday `` make it unlikely that short-term interest rates will rise '' any time soon , said Mr. Mehl of Banxquote .
`` Even before the market drop , rates were down about half a percentage point , '' said Robert J. Hutchinson , senior vice president for retail marketing at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New York .
`` That puts pressure on CD rates .
Conservatives have an important decision to make this fall .
While the U.S. share of the increase probably will not reach the $ 12 billion or more implicit in the IMF 's request for a doubling of its $ 90 billion capital , the administration probably will agree to a multibillion-dollar increase .
The IMF has several reasons for requesting the increase .
Its role in the economies of developing countries has grown steadily since the 1970s .
At least three other factors have encouraged the IMF to insist on increased capital .
First , it argues that its capital base must be increased in order to maintain its size relative to world financial markets , for which it feels some responsibility .
Second , the World Bank 's recent $ 75 billion capital increase -- $ 14 billion from the U.S. -- has left the IMF feeling less than first fiddle among international financial institutions .
Third , the IMF would like to meet Japan 's request for increased ownership -LRB- currently 4.5 % -RRB- .
While international politics may argue for the capital increase , there is a clear economic case against it .
Opponents of the increase argue that the IMF practices central planning while supporting ineffective governments .
They question whether the IMF has any role in developing countries , given its original mandate to assist industrial countries in balance-of-payments emergencies .
Opponents show that there are already more funds available than commendable reform efforts .
They point at the numerous developing-country governments that have inflated , taxed and regulated themselves into despair under successive IMF programs .
Decisions on increases in the IMF 's capital base traditionally are made by the administration , with subsequent authorization by Congress .
The last U.S. congressional authorization , in 1983 , was a political donnybrook and carried a $ 6 billion housing program along with it to secure adequate votes .
Conservative Republicans will be given the choice of supporting or fighting their party 's popular president in an election year .
A U.S. decision to refuse the IMF its capital increase , or limit it to 25 % , would bring a major change in international economic policy , and could not be taken lightly .
On the other hand , a decision to increase the IMF 's capital would reinforce the central economic role of multilateral institutions in developing countries .
Conservatives should take a position prior to the administration 's year-end deadline .
The issues are too important to be left to the financial and budget ministries fighting over the size of the capital increase , rather than its purpose .
If conservatives do n't support an increase in the IMF 's capital , then it is incumbent on them to speak up now and explain the alternative .
Merc officials said Gary N. Roberts was disciplined following the exchange 's investigation of his trading in several commodities pits from July to November 1988 .
The Merc said Mr. Roberts withheld from the market certain orders in cooperation with another trader , David Stein .
The Merc fined Mr. Roberts $ 15,000 and suspended his trading membership for three years .
Also , he and Mr. Stein were ordered to make restitution of $ 35,000 to a customer .
Mr. Stein was fined $ 25,000 and suspended for three years .
Messrs. Roberts and Stein could n't be reached for comment .
The Merc said that as part of the disciplinary settlement , neither man admitted , nor denied the alleged violations .
Neither was among the 46 traders indicted last August in a federal investigation of traders at both the Merc and the Chicago Board of Trade .
In a move that could pose a new competitive challenge to Time Warner Inc. 's powerful Home Box Office , cable giant Tele-Communications Inc. agreed to buy half of Showtime Networks Inc. from Viacom Inc. for $ 225 million .
Showtime is a distant No. 2 to Home Box Office , and in May filed a $ 2.5 billion antitrust suit against Time Warner , charging the company and its HBO and American Television cable units with conspiring to monopolize the pay TV business .
Additional cable partners could boost subscribers even further .
Time Warner declined comment .
Viacom also owns cable systems , but it is the 14th largest operator of such systems , with less than one million subscribers .
They were both hired by Sumner Redstone , the Boston billionaire who took control of Viacom three years ago in a leveraged buy-out .
Time Warner has vigorously denied all of Viacom 's allegations .
Boeing Co. , already struck by its Machinists union , briefly called off contract talks with its engineers and labeled their demands `` grossly excessive . ''
Later , however , the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association after a federal mediator intervened , according to the union .
The union represents about 28,000 engineers and technical workers .
Its contract expires Dec. 1 .
Meanwhile , a federal mediator is scheduled to meet today with Boeing officials and representatives of 55,000 striking Machinists .
`` It will take several meetings to resolve this , '' said a spokesman for the Machinists union .
`` We do n't want to bring back something the members will reject . ''
Machinists already have rejected a package that would have provided a 10 % pay raise plus bonuses over the three-year life of the contract .
It also would have reduced mandatory overtime .
Investor Asher Edelman increased his stake in Intelogic Trace Inc. and cleared the way for additional purchases .
It was n't clear , however , whether the actions were related to a battle between the corporate raider and New York attorney Martin Ackerman for control of Datapoint Corp. , a San Antonio , Texas-based data-processing systems maker .
Intelogic Trace , a computer services company , was spun off to Datapoint holders in 1985 , after Mr. Edelman gained control .
The purchases increased his stake to 16.2 % of the shares outstanding .
The filing also said certain provisions which apply to persons acquiring 20 % or more of Intelogic common stock , were waived by Intelogic for Mr. Edelman , who is chairman of the company .
Mr. Edelman could n't be reached for comment .
The federal government should make free , voluntary testing for the AIDS virus the cornerstone of an expanded campaign to stop the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome , the Hudson Institute recommended .
`` By encouraging massive , routine , voluntary testing we can enable society to voluntarily segregate itself sexually into two groups : those who carry the virus and those who do not , '' the Indianapolis research organization said in a new report .
Hudson 's researchers estimated that it would cost less than $ 650 million a year to test the entire population between the ages of 12 and 65 years old .
In addition , the report recommends that federal and state governments provide free treatment to all who test positive .
An unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap for August dragged the dollar lower Tuesday , but profit-taking on short positions helped the currency rebound to close mixed against major counterparts .
While the market kept careful tabs on Wall Street 's gyrations , it shrugged off a modest downturn in equities to bid the dollar well above the day 's lows .
The dollar finished at its intraday highs .
The U.S. Commerce Department reported a $ 10.77 billion deficit in August , compared with a revised July deficit of $ 8.24 billion .
Economists had expected a $ 9.1 billion gap .
The August figure reflected a 6.4 % rise in imports and a 0.2 % drop in exports .
He said that while the U.S. trade gap with Canada has widened significantly , the trade deficit with Western Europe and Japan continues to narrow .
And he added that manufactured goods exports are still rising .
Some analysts remain bullish and point out that the dollar continues to be well bid despite key rate increases in Europe and Japan , several weeks of aggressive dollar sales by the world central banks -- some traders estimate that the barrage of sales topped $ 12 billion -- and a 190-point plunge on the New York Stock Exchange .
They note that the U.S. unit is trading at the upper end of the presumed target zones established by the Group of Seven trading partners .
The G-7 comprises West Germany , the U.S. , France , the U.K. , Italy , Canada and Japan .
They say that the recent injection of liquidity into the U.S. banking system has been modest , and they do n't anticipate significant easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve .
The Fed arranged $ 1.5 billion of customer repurchase agreements Tuesday , the second repurchase agreement in two days .
But other analysts contend that while the Fed 's move to loosen credit has n't been aggressive , it nevertheless sends a clear signal that , at least for now , the Fed has relaxed its grip on credit .
They add that the Fed has allowed the key federal funds interest rate to dip to about 8 5/8 % from its levels of just below 9 % last week .
The federal funds rate is the overnight lending rate that banks charge each other .
Market participants said that the mark continues to post the most significant gains against the dollar .
Estimated volume was a moderate 3.5 million ounces .
The two companies also agreed to settle any future property rights issues over the next 10 years through binding arbitration , both companies said .
The products are so-called analog integrated circuits that have applications in the consumer electronics , automobile and electronic instrumentation markets .
NBC 's winning streak has been canceled .
In the ratings compiled by the A.C. Nielsen Co. , ABC , which broadcast the World Series , topped the competition with a 14.8 rating and 25 share .
The first two games of the World Series between the Oakland Athletics and San Francisco Giants did n't finish in the top 10 ; instead they landed in 16th and 18th place .
The highest-rated show continues to be ABC 's `` Roseanne . ''
NBC had five of the top 10 shows ; ABC had four and CBS had one .
Terms were n't disclosed .
The acquisition `` gives us additional production capacity for the food service coffee business and a stronger distribution network , '' a P&G spokesman said .
P&G already sells its Folgers ground roast coffee to food service concerns , but not to as many markets as Maryland Club .
For example , P&G up until now has n't sold coffee to airlines and does only limited business with hotels and large restaurant chains .
The company said the acquisition has been completed and reviewed by the Federal Trade Commission .
MacMillan Bloedel , a Vancouver , British Columbia , forest products concern , said the 8.1 % loan is due Oct. 16 , 1996 .
Funds will be used to repay existing short-term debt and to finance capital spending , it said .
President Bush will veto a bill funding the Departments of Labor , Education and Health and Human Services because it would allow federal funding of abortions for victims of rape and incest , the White House said .
Mr. Bush had threatened a veto previously .
But he put off a firm decision while his aides and legislators searched for a compromise that would tighten requirements for such abortions in a way acceptable to the president .
White House Press Secretary Marlin Fitzwater said negotiations between Bush aides and lawmakers ended Monday without success .
Most lawmakers think it will be extremely difficult for Mr. Bush 's opponents on the abortion issue to round up the votes needed to override the veto .
But there still may be prolonged debate and political maneuvering that holds up the $ 156.7 billion funding bill for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1 .
Mr. Bush has said he personally approves of abortions in the cases of rape , incest and danger to the life of the mother .
But he has opposed Medicaid funding of abortions for poor women who say they are victims of rape and incest , arguing that those exceptions are enforced so loosely that they open the way for abortions for other women .
Media General said it has had inquiries from potential buyers and expects to complete a sale in 1989 .
It would n't discuss a price .
Lee Dirks & Associates is to sell the chains .
J.P. Morgan & Co. , New York , will help the statutory managers of DFC New Zealand Ltd. to evaluate the failed investment bank 's condition .
Earlier this month , the Reserve Bank of New Zealand , the country 's central bank , appointed the managers to run the investment bank and pay creditors .
DFC asked the central bank to appoint managers after it revised loan-loss provisions to around the same level of shareholders ' funds of 180 million New Zealand dollars -LRB- US$ 105.4 million -RRB- .
A spokeswoman for J.P. Morgan , parent of the bank Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. , confirmed its appointment to assist the managers but declined to elaborate .
The managers said in a brief statement yesterday that Morgan will help evaluate DFC 's position and help determine alternatives .
The managers do n't expect to complete the evaluation until Nov. 30 .
An experimental vaccine can alter the immune response of people infected with the AIDS virus , a prominent U.S. scientist said .
However , that does n't mean they can benefit from the vaccine .
`` We 've demonstrated that you can . ''
Bids totaling $ 465 million were submitted , and accepted bids were at 8.292 % .
Bids totaling $ 415 million were submitted , and accepted bids were at 7.986 % .
The bank holding company will auction another $ 50 million of commercial paper in each maturity next Tuesday .
Matra S.A. reported its 1989 first-half profit soared 88 % , and indicated that its previous estimate of a 50 % rise in earnings for all of 1989 will be exceeded by a wide margin .
Operating profit climbed 51 % , to 572 million francs from 378 million in the first half of 1988 .
Matra said the sharp improvement in net profit partly reflected a decline of 59 million francs in the group 's net loss from nonrecurring items in the first half of this year to 104 million francs from 163 million a year earlier .
There was also a decline in the group 's net financial costs to 25 million francs from 50 million a year before .
Rep. Lee Hamilton -LRB- D. , Ind . -RRB- said he and Rep. Byron Dorgan -LRB- D. , N.D . -RRB- are backing away from their proposal to make the Treasury Secretary a voting member of the Federal Reserve panel that sets monetary policy .
Rep. Hamilton said the bill will be modified substantially to call for two meetings each year between the Fed 's open market committee and the Treasury Secretary , the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and the director of the Office of Management and Budget .
The original bill was strongly opposed by the Fed and publicly criticized by friends of the Fed as an attempt to undermine the central bank 's independence .
Fed critics , however , hailed it as a long overdue attempt to bring a measure of openness and democracy to the setting of monetary policy .
Rep. Hamilton said the purpose of the meetings would be to `` improve communications and perhaps coordination between the executive branch and the Fed . ''
Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan meets regularly for lunch with Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady and talks frequently with Budget Director Richard Darman and Michael Boskin , chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers .
The administration officials do n't ordinarily meet with the entire membership of the open market committee .
The plastic resin is used in a wide range of products , including siding , pipe and electrical wire insulation .
But operating profit from aerospace products rose nearly 50 % to $ 15 million from $ 10.1 million .
Fiat S.p . A. , Italy 's leading industrial group , is conducting `` concrete '' talks with West Germany 's Daimler-Benz AG on a series of projects in the aerospace sector , Fiat officials said .
However , the officials said it was too early to disclose the nature of the proposed projects or indicate when the talks might be concluded .
`` While Mr. Reuter 's comments please us very much , there currently are no talks in progress regarding the automotive industry , '' a Fiat spokeswoman said .
In the interview , Mr. Reuter said he is thinking foremost of cooperation in the truck sector , but `` in the long run , I do n't want to rule out that we can also come a bit closer in personal cars . ''
He has also agreed to become president of a new subsidiary to be formed to make future acquisitions , the company said .
That 's the view of some analysts here who argue that Britain 's leading maker of luxury cars still may have two U.S. auto giants battling for it .
Yesterday , Ford Motor disclosed that it has raised its holding in Jaguar to 10.4 % from 5 % .
Ford 's latest move increases the pressure on GM to complete its current talks with Jaguar quickly .
GM is likely to reach the cooperative operating pact it has been seeking in about two weeks , knowledgeable individuals say .
At that point investors may face a long , bumpy ride .
A victor in the fight for Jaguar may not emerge until after the expiration late next year of British government takeover restrictions .
The curbs prevent a buyer from purchasing more than 15 % of Jaguar shares without permission .
`` This is an exceptionally odd takeover battle , '' says London analyst Christopher Will of Shearson Lehman Hutton .
Jaguar 's American depositary receipts were up 3/8 yesterday in a down market , closing at 10 3/8 .
-LRB- Jaguar 's ADRs make the company one of the most widely held United Kingdom stocks in the U.S. , with more than one-fourth of its shares owned there . -RRB-
Jaguar topped the most-active list for the U.S. over-the-counter market Monday .
And on London 's Stock Exchange Monday , 18.5 million shares were traded , far above the usual volume .
Ford 's share purchases undoubtedly accounted for much of Monday 's heavy trading .
Last week , many Jaguar shareholders took their money and ran .
Fears that Ford 's ardor might be cooling put Jaguar shares into reverse after GM confirmed its friendly negotiations with Jaguar .
But yesterday 's announcement indicates that Ford has n't lost interest .
Both Shearson 's Mr . Will and Stephen Reitman , European auto analyst at the London brokerage firm UBS-Phillips & Drew , recently switched their Jaguar recommendations to hold from buy .
Analysts believe the car makers also will create joint ventures to develop new executive models , doubling Jaguar 's yearly output of 50,000 cars .
Jaguar shareholders would have to bless such a far-reaching accord .
Ford might challenge the proposal by offering a full bid if holders and the U.K. government agreed to drop the anti-takeover barrier early .
`` I think Ford is going to come out with full guns blazing , '' Mr. Reitman says .
`` Ford wants -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- very much . ''
U.S. takeover-stock speculators , who may own between 20 % and 30 % of Jaguar , could give Ford enough votes to block the GM deal .
GM might counterbid .
Then , Mr . Will says , `` you get a bidding war between two very rich , very determined international companies . ''
`` There 's quite a bit of value left in the -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- shares here even though they have run up '' lately , says Doug Johnson , a fund manager for Seattle-based Safeco Asset Management .
At the moment , he intends to keep the firm 's 180,000 Jaguar shares .
The risk is that Jaguar 's share price could slump if GM 's agreement with Jaguar effectively locks out its U.S. rival .
`` Ford 's appetite to attack -LCB- Jaguar -RCB- could gradually wane over time , particularly if Saab is a reasonably attractive proposition , '' says John Lawson , an auto analyst at London 's Nomura Research Institute .
He thinks Saab-Scania AB on Friday will announce the sale of 50 % of its car division to Ford ; the companies have been discussing closer cooperation for months .
Of course , that was before Ford 's latest move .
Year ended Dec. 31 , 1988 :
Revenue : $ 1.71 billion
First half ended , June 30 , 1989 :
Net loss : $ 1.7 million vs. net income : $ 21.2 million ; or 12 cents a share
NOTE : All figures are translated into U.S. dollars based on current exchange rates .
A.F. Sloan , 60 years old , announced that he will retire next April as chairman and chief executive officer of this snack food and bakery products maker .
No replacement was immediately named .
Mr. Sloan plans to remain on the board until his current term expires in April 1991 , a Lance spokesman said .
Newport Electronics Inc. of Santa Ana , Calif. , said Milton B. Hollander , who holds a 49.4 % stake , requested a special shareholders ' meeting next Wednesday to remove four current directors and elect an alternative slate .
Newport said Mr. Hollander is asking shareholders to retain only one director , James R. Lees , a Newport vice president .
The board is n't proposing a slate of its own and the other four current directors do n't want to serve beyond the special meeting date , Newport said .
Sandoz said it expects a `` substantial increase '' in consolidated profit for the full year , barring major currency rate changes .
The slump in profit , which came despite steady sales , was attributed to increased costs for parts and problems with model introductions .
Microsoft previously indicated it would have a strong quarter by forecasting its revenue gain on Oct. 4 , causing a $ 6.50 a share jump in its stock .
But its stock jumped again yesterday as it disclosed surprisingly strong margins on those sales .
The company had been experiencing softening margins because of increased sales of software applications , which have lower margins than do operating systems .
But the company said that trend was offset in the first quarter by better economies of scale and efficiencies in manufacturing .
As a result , Microsoft 's cost of goods , as a percentage of sales , fell 17 % from the year-ago quarter and 13 % from the previous period .
Microsoft officials said the strong results also reflected continuing high demand for its software applications and operating systems .
While it has predicted that overall growth in unit sales of personal computers is slowing to about a 10 % yearly rate , its own products are selling at a much faster rate because many are geared to the high-performance end of the market .
That segment continues to post strong quarter-to-quarter gains , while the low-end , or commodity segment , of the industry is experiencing sluggish growth or even sales declines .
Compared with its previous quarter , the final period of its 1989 fiscal year , net rose 9 % , and sales rose 7 % .
Control Data Corp. , Minneapolis , signed a joint development agreement with MIPS Computer Systems Inc. to incorporate an emerging computing architecture in future machines .
In joining MIPS , Control Data follows several competitors in embracing RISC as a new design approach .
Digital Equipment Corp. , Tandem Computers Inc. , NEC Corp. and Group Bull , among others , have similar arrangements with MIPs , based in Sunnyvale , Calif .
The accord with MIPS calls for Control Data to share its expertise in data storage , the companies said .
Meanwhile , investor Marvin Davis said he remains interested in UAL , but he dropped his earlier $ 300-a-share back-up bid .
Stock prices fell broadly in heavy trading , dominated by futures-related program selling and further declines by UAL and other airline stocks .
Bond prices ended lower after an early rally , while the dollar was mixed .
The U.S. trade deficit swelled to $ 10.77 billion in August , prompting worries that the nation 's export drive had stalled .
Exports declined for the second month in a row , while imports rose to a record .
Industrial output fell 0.1 % in September , the latest sign manufacturing is slowing .
An analyst cited weaker capital spending and exports .
Bankers Trust added $ 1.6 billion to reserves for Third World loans , the latest big bank to take such a step .
It expects a $ 1.42 billion quarterly loss .
Citicorp posted a 9 % drop in quarterly profit .
Manufacturers Hanover had a loss due to a big reserve addition .
Bank of New England plans to sell some operations and lay off 4 % of its work force after a year of weak earnings and mounting loan problems .
Eastern Airlines ' creditors have begun exploring alternative approaches to a Chapter 11 reorganization because they are unhappy with the carrier 's latest proposal .
Tele-Communications agreed to buy half of Showtime Networks from Viacom for $ 225 million .
The move could pose a new challenge to Time Warner 's Home Box Office .
The CFTC plans to curb dual trading on commodities markets , in which traders buy and sell both for their own account and for clients .
The move is likely to anger traders .
FDIC Chairman Seidman said that Lincoln Savings & Loan of California should have been seized in 1986 to contain losses he estimated will cost taxpayers as much as $ 2 billion .
A $ 67 billion spending bill was approved by House-Senate conferees that includes major provisions affecting the federal mortgage market .
Hooker 's U.S. unit is expected to agree in principle this week to sell its Merksamer Jewelers chain to management , according to executives .
The deficit-reduction bill became snagged over efforts to streamline the House version of the legislation in advance of a House-Senate conference .
Integrated Resources said talks have ended with another potential buyer of its core businesses .
Three big drug makers posted robust third-quarter earnings .
Markets --
Paul Ely , general partner of Alpha Partners , a venture-capital firm based in Menlo Park , Calif. , was named a director of this computer company .
Mr. Ely , 57 years old , temporarily increases the board to seven members .
Mr. Turner said the test will be shipped in 45 days to hospitals and clinical laboratories .
But the test may prove to be more sensitive in determining whether a tumor has spread or returned following treatment , Dr. Wilson said .
`` We do n't know yet how useful it 's going to be , '' he said .
The company will charge $ 35 for a test and projects about $ 2 million in revenue from the test during the first 12 months of marketing , he said .
Consumers may want to move their telephones a little closer to the TV set .
Two weeks ago , viewers of several NBC daytime consumer segments started calling a 900 number for advice on various life-style issues .
Eventually viewers may grow bored with the technology and resent the cost .
`` With the competitiveness of the television market these days , everyone is looking for a way to get viewers more excited . ''
Other long-distance carriers have also begun marketing enhanced 900 service , and special consultants are springing up to exploit the new tool .
Blair Entertainment , a New York firm that advises TV stations and sells ads for them , has just formed a subsidiary -- 900 Blair -- to apply the technology to television .
The use of 900 toll numbers has been expanding rapidly in recent years .
In recent months , the technology has become more flexible and able to handle much more volume .
Before , callers of 900 numbers would just listen and not talk , or they 'd vote `` yes '' or `` no '' by calling one of two numbers .
Now , callers are led through complex menus of choices to retrieve information they want , and the hardware can process 10,000 calls in 90 seconds .
Up to now , 900 numbers have mainly been used on local TV stations and cable channels .
Capital Cities/ABC Inc. , CBS Inc. and General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. unit are expected to announce soon a joint campaign to raise awareness about hunger .
The subject will be written into the plots of prime-time shows , and viewers will be given a 900 number to call .
Other network applications have very different goals .
Meanwhile , NBC Sports recently began `` Scores Plus , '' a year-round , 24-hour 900 line providing a complex array of scores , analysis and fan news .
A spokesman said its purpose is `` to bolster the impression that NBC Sports is always there for people . ''
Each weekday matches a sponsor and a topic : On Mondays , Unilever N.V. 's Lever Bros. sponsors tips on diet and exercise , followed by a 30-second Lever Bros. commercial .
Viewers can call a 900 number for additional advice , which will be tailored to their needs based on the numbers they punch -LRB- `` Press one if you 're pregnant , '' etc . -RRB- .
If the caller stays on the line and leaves a name and address for the sponsor , coupons and a newsletter will be mailed , and the sponsor will be able to gather a list of desirable potential customers .
Diane Seaman , an NBC-TV vice president , says NBC has been able to charge premium rates for this ad time .
She would n't say what the premium is , but it 's believed to be about 40 % above regular daytime rates .
`` And we were able to attract some new advertisers because this is something new . ''
Experts are predicting a big influx of new shows in 1990 , when a service called `` automatic number information '' will become widely available .
This service identifies each caller 's phone number , and it can be used to generate instant mailing lists .
`` For a piece on local heroes of World War II , we can ask people to leave the name and number of anyone they know who won a medal , '' he says .
`` That 'll save us time and get people involved . ''
`` These are just baby steps toward real interactive video , which I believe will be the biggest thing yet to affect television , '' he says .
`` You 'll start to see shows where viewers program the program .
Integrated Resources Inc. , the troubled financial-services company that has been trying to sell its core companies to restructure debt , said talks with a potential buyer ended .
Integrated did n't identify the party or say why the talks failed .
Integrated said that it would continue to pursue `` other alternatives '' to sell the five core companies and that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- Integrated Resources Equity Corp. , Resources Trust Co. and Integrated Resources Asset Management Corp .
A price was n't disclosed .
Integrated also said it expects to report a second-quarter loss wider than the earlier estimate of about $ 600 million .
The company did n't disclose the new estimate but said the change was related to Integrated 's failure to sell its core businesses , as well as `` other events , '' which it did n't detail , that occurred after its announcement last week that it was in talks with the unidentified prospective buyer .
Meanwhile , a number of top sales producers from Integrated Resources Equity will meet this afternoon in Chicago to discuss their options .
The unit is a loosely constructed group of about 3,900 independent brokers and financial planners who sell insurance , annuities , limited partnerships , mutual funds and other investments for Integrated and other firms .
The sales force is viewed as a critical asset in Integrated 's attempt to sell its core companies .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday , Integrated closed at $ 1.25 a share , down 25 cents .
Integrated has been struggling to avoid a bankruptcy-law filing since June , when it failed to make interest payments on nearly $ 1 billion of debt .
Integrated senior and junior creditors are owed a total of about $ 1.8 billion .
Numerous injuries were reported .
Some buildings collapsed , gas and water lines ruptured and fires raged .
The quake , which also caused damage in San Jose and Berkeley , knocked out electricity and telephones , cracked roadways and disrupted subway service in the Bay Area .
Major injuries were n't reported at Candlestick Park , where the third game of baseball 's World Series was canceled and fans evacuated from the stadium .
Bush vowed to veto a bill allowing federal financing for abortions in cases of rape and incest , saying tax dollars should n't be used to `` compound a violent act with the taking of an unborn life . ''
His pledge , in a letter to Democratic Sen. Byrd , came ahead of an expected Senate vote on spending legislation containing the provision .
East Germany 's Politburo met amid speculation that the ruling body would oust hard-line leader Honecker , whose rule has been challenged by mass emigration and calls for democratic freedoms .
The flight was rescheduled for today .
Senate Democratic leaders said they had enough votes to defeat a proposed constitutional amendment to ban flag burning .
Bush met with South Korean President Roh , who indicated that Seoul plans to further ease trade rules to ensure that its economy becomes as open as the other industrialized nations by the mid-1990s .
Bush assured Roh that the U.S. would stand by its security commitments `` as long as there is a threat '' from Communist North Korea .
The Bush administration is seeking an understanding with Congress to ease restrictions on U.S. involvement in foreign coups that might result in the death of a country 's leader .
A White House spokesman said that while Bush would n't alter a longstanding ban on such involvement , `` there 's a clarification needed '' on its interpretation .
India 's Gandhi called for parliamentary elections next month .
The balloting , considered a test for the prime minister and the ruling Congress -LRB- I -RRB- Party , comes amid charges of inept leadership and government corruption .
Gandhi 's family has ruled independent India for all but five years of its 42-year history .
The Soviet Union abstained from a U.N. General Assembly vote to reject Israel 's credentials .
Black activist Walter Sisulu said the African National Congress would n't reject violence as a way to pressure the South African government into concessions that might lead to negotiations over apartheid .
The 77-year-old Sisulu was among eight black political activists freed Sunday from prison .
Libyan leader Gadhafi met with Egypt 's President Mubarak , and the two officials pledged to respect each other 's laws , security and stability .
They stopped short of resuming diplomatic ties , severed in 1979 .
The Hackensack , N.J. , company said holders would receive for each $ 1,000 face amount , $ 750 face amount of a new issue of secured senior subordinated notes , convertible into common stock at an initial rate of $ 6.50 a share , and 50 common shares .
The new notes will bear interest at 5.5 % through July 31 , 1991 , and thereafter at 10 % .
Completion of the exchange offer is subject to the tender of at least 80 % of the debt , among other things .
`` This is a total bloodbath '' for takeover-stock traders , one investment banker said .
But he dropped his earlier $ 300-a-share back-up bid , saying he must first explore bank financing .
Even as Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. scrambled to line up bank financing for a revised version of the lapsed labor-management bid , British Airways , a 15 % partner in the buying group , indicated it wants to start from scratch .
Its partners are United 's pilots , who were to own 75 % , and UAL management at 10 % .
A similar demand was made by a group that represents some of United 's 26,000 noncontract employees .
Although Mr. Wolf and John Pope , UAL 's chief financial officer , stood to pocket $ 114.3 million for stock and options in the buy-out , UAL executives planned to reinvest only $ 15 million in the new company .
The blue-collar machinists , longtime rivals of the white-collar pilots , say the buyout would load the company with debt and weaken its finances .
Several reports as the day progressed gave vague or conflicting indications about whether banks would sign up .
Citicorp , for example , said only that it had `` expressions of interest of a transaction from both the borrowers and the banks , '' but did n't have an agreement .
But he gave few details on the progress toward a new bid , saying only , `` We are working toward a revised proposal for majority employee ownership . ''
Meanwhile , in another sign that a new bid is n't imminent , it was learned that the UAL board held a telephone meeting Monday to hear an update on the situation , but that a formal board meeting is n't likely to be convened until early next week .
In London , British Airways Chairman Lord King was quoted in the Times as declaring he is `` not prepared to take my shareholders into a hasty deal . ''
Observers said it appeared that British Air was angered at the way the bid has degenerated into confusion , as well as by the banks ' effort to round up financing for what one called `` a deal that is n't a deal . ''
The pilots were meeting outside Chicago yesterday .
The machinists also asked for an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into possible securities-law violations in the original bid for UAL by Mr. Davis , as well as in the response by UAL .
Last week , just before the bank commitments were due , the union asked the U.S. Labor Department to study whether the bid violated legal standards of fairness governing employee investment funds .
In his statement , Mr. Wolf said , `` We continue to believe our approach is sound , and that it is far better for all employees than the alternative of having an outsider own the company with employees paying for it just the same . ''
Mr. Wolf has eschewed merger advice from a major Wall Street securities firm , relying instead only on a takeover lawyer , Peter Atkins of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom .
Mr. Kellner said that despite losses on UAL stock , his firm 's health is `` excellent . ''
Although it may not be legally obligated to sell the company if the buy-out group ca n't revive its bid , it may have to explore alternatives if the buyers come back with a bid much lower than the group 's original $ 300-a-share proposal .
The offering for the language school unit was announced by Robert Maxwell , chairman and chief executive officer of London-based Maxwell Communication Corp. , which owns Macmillan .
Five million shares will be offered in the U.S. , and 3.4 million additional shares will be offered in concurrent international offerings outside the U.S. .
Goldman , Sachs & Co. will manage the offering .
The company said it expects to pay the first dividend , of 12.5 cents a share , in the 1990 first quarter .
The total borrowing will be about $ 208 million , the company said .
Proceeds from the borrowings under the credit agreement will be used to pay an $ 80 million cash dividend to Macmillan and to lend the remainder of about $ 128 million to Maxwell Communications in connection with a promissory note .
Proceeds from the offering will be used to repay borrowings under the short-term parts of a credit agreement .
In the past five years , more than 68 % of its sales have been outside the U.S. .
Right away you notice the following things about a Philip Glass concert .
It attracts people with funny hair -LRB- or with no hair -- in front of me a girl with spiked locks sat beside a boy who had shaved his -RRB- .
Whoever constitute the local Left Bank come out in force , dressed in black , along with a smattering of yuppies who want to be on the cutting edge .
He sits down at the piano and plays .
And plays .
Either one likes it or one does n't .
The typical Glass audience , which is more likely to be composed of music students than their teachers , certainly does .
His success is easy to understand .
It is music for people who want to hear something different but do n't want to work especially hard at the task .
His more is always less .
But the music has its charm , and Mr. Glass has constructed his solo program around a move from the simple to the relatively complex .
There is a recognizable musical style here , but not a particular performance style .
We hear , we may think , inner voices , but they all seem to be saying the same thing .
His hands sit farther apart on the keyboard .
He does this in at least three of his solo pieces .
The point is that any piece can be used as background music for virtually anything .
Honeywell Inc. said it hopes to complete shortly the first of two sales of shares in its Japanese joint venture , Yamatake-Honeywell , for about $ 280 million .
The company would n't disclose the buyer of the initial 16 % stake .
Proceeds of the sale , expected to be completed next week , would be used to repurchase as many as 10 million shares of Honeywell stock , the company said .
Honeywell said it is negotiating the sale of a second stake in Yamatake-Honeywell , but indicated it intends to hold at least 20 % of the joint venture 's stock long term .
A 20 % stake would allow Honeywell to include Yamatake earnings in its results .
Honeywell previously said it intended to reduce its holding in the Japanese concern as part of a restructuring plan which also calls for a reduction of dependence on weapons sales .
Yesterday a spokeswoman said the company was `` pleased with our progress '' in that regard and `` hopes to provide additional details soon . ''
Honeywell said its Defense and Marine Systems group incurred delays in shipping some undisclosed contracts during the third quarter , resulting in lower operating profit for that business .
Sales for the latest quarter were flat , at $ 1.72 billion .
The Clean Water Act contains no `` legal standard '' of zero discharge .
Whatever may be the problems with this system , it scarcely reflects `` zero risk '' or `` zero discharge . ''
So why did advertising pages plunge by almost 10 % and ad revenue by 7.2 % in the first half ?
To hear advertisers tell it , the magazine just has n't kept up with the times .
Worse , it lagged behind competitors in offering now-standard gimmicks , from regional editions to discounts for frequent advertisers .
But now , the magazine is attempting to fight back , with an ambitious plan including a revamped sales strategy and a surprisingly aggressive ad campaign .
`` What we want to do is take a more aggressive stance .
People did n't believe we were in tune with the marketplace , and in many ways we were n't . ''
When ad dollars are tight , the high page cost is a major deterrent for advertisers , who generally want to appear regularly in a publication or not at all .
But the magazine was slower than its competitors to come up with its regional editions , and until last year offered fewer of them than did competitors .
Time magazine , for example , has more than 100 separate editions going to different regions , top management , and other groups .
It now offers 30 regional editions , it very recently began running ads adjacent to articles , and it has been beefing up its sales force .
And it just launched a promotional campaign to tell chief executives , marketing directors , and media executives just that .
The centerpiece of the promotion is its new ad campaign , into which the magazine will pour about $ 500,000 , mostly in the next few weeks .
Her goal : to top 300 ad pages in 1990 , up from about 274 this year .
Whether she can meet that ambitious goal is still far from certain .
`` We want it to be a '90s kind of image . ''
WCRS Group hopes to announce , perhaps today , an agreement to sell the majority of its ad unit to Paris-based Eurocom , a European ad executive said .
WCRS has been in discussions with Eurocom for several months .
Executives of the two agencies could n't be reached last night .
Ad Notes ... .
Billings were n't disclosed .
He was executive vice president , director of broadcast production .
The CFTC said it will propose the restrictions after the release of a study that shows little economic benefit resulting from dual trading and cites `` problems '' associated with the practice .
The issue exploded this year after a Federal Bureau of Investigation operation led to charges of widespread trading abuses at the Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Mercantile Exchange .
While not specifically mentioned in the FBI charges , dual trading became a focus of attempts to tighten industry regulations .
Critics contend that traders were putting buying or selling for their own accounts ahead of other traders ' customer orders .
Traders are likely to oppose such restrictions because dual trading provides a way to make money in slower markets where there is a shortage of customer orders .
The exchanges contend that dual trading improves liquidity in the markets because traders can buy or sell even when they do n't have a customer order in hand .
The exchanges say liquidity becomes a severe problem for thinly traded contracts such as those with a long time remaining before expiration .
The CFTC may take those arguments into account by allowing exceptions to its restrictions .
The agency did n't cite specific situations where dual trading might be allowed , but smaller exchanges or contracts that need additional liquidity are expected to be among them .
Wendy Gramm , the agency 's chairman , told the Senate Agriculture Committee that she expects the study to be released within two weeks and the rule changes to be completed by Thanksgiving .
The study , by the CFTC 's division of economic analysis , shows that `` a trade is a trade , '' a member of the study team said .
Currently , most traders on commodity exchanges specialize in trading either for customer accounts , which makes them brokers , or for their own accounts as socalled locals .
The House 's bill would prohibit dual trading in markets with daily average volume of 7,000 contracts or more , comprising those considered too difficult to track without a sophisticated computer system .
So far , one test of restricting dual trading has worked well .
The Chicago Merc banned dual trading in its Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index futures pit in 1987 .
Under the rules , traders decide before a session begins whether they will trade for their own account or for customers .
Traders who stand on the pit 's top step , where most customer orders are executed , ca n't trade for themselves .
A Merc spokesman said the plan has n't made much difference in liquidity in the pit .
`` It 's too soon to tell ... but people do n't seem to be unhappy with it , '' he said .
He said he would n't comment on the CFTC plan until the exchange has seen the full proposal .
It adds something to the market .
JAPANESE luxury-car makers are trying to set strict design standards for their dealerships .
But some dealers are negotiating looser terms , while others decline to deal at all .
Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus division also provides specifications .
Some are even coming up with their own novel designs .
In Louisville , Ky. , for example , David Peterson has built a Lexus dealership with the showroom on the second floor .
Yet some dealers have turned down Infiniti or Lexus franchises because they were unwilling or unable to meet the design requirements .
Lee Seidman of Cleveland says Infiniti `` was a bear on interiors '' but at least let him retrofit an existing building -- without the stream .
Mr. Seidman says he turned down a Lexus franchise in part because `` the building was gorgeous but very expensive . ''
To head off arguments , Infiniti offers dealers cash bonuses and low-interest construction loans .
That 's the lesson offered through one case study featured in a design exhibit .
Both were right .
Nevertheless , the device has been successful in other ways .
It helped Dictaphone attract better engineers , and it provided new technology for other company products .
The studies are on exhibit at Harvard this month and will travel to Chicago 's Institute of Design and the University of California at Berkeley .
His crude device worked : The lower teeth gathered the leaves into a pile , while the higher , harder teeth moved the top of the pile .
`` They either pick it up , '' he says , `` or they start pulling from a fresh direction . ''
Odds and Ends
The Pentagon is a haunted house .
Living there for six years was really scary .
The ghosts of the past are everywhere : They are kept at bay only by feeding them vast quantities of our defense budget .
Some can be bought off relatively cheaply .
Those obsolete operations cost less than $ 2 billion a year , and keep Mac 's ghost quiet .
So far no one has .
George Marshall 's ghost is much more difficult to keep happy .
The Army headquarters on the third deck of the Pentagon used to burn a lot of incense to him , but the Navy headquarters on the fourth deck made them stop it .
Now his ghost wo n't let up till it 's done .
To keep him quiet we invent a new unified command every year or so run by the Army or the Air Force and put more of the Navy and Marines under it .
Mr. Carter said he would go to war to stop anyone from trying to grab Iran .
But that ghost would n't settle for words , he wanted money and people -- lots .
I saw what he did to them firsthand .
He dedicated all these new forces to the Persian Gulf .
He gave those bureaucrats charge of all naval operations in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean .
Marshall figured it would be good training for those soldiers -- someday maybe they would get the whole Navy .
They had fun moving the carriers around , but it turned out that they had forgotten all about mine sweepers .
We had great success in Somalia .
-LRB- But who 's counting . -RRB-
All these reports about him committing genocide are probably exaggerated anyway .
Meanwhile , Congress is cutting huge chunks out of the rest of the defense budget .
Could n't we save $ 20 billion or $ 30 billion a year by shifting that stuff to the reserves ?
He would n't leave until Mr. Cheney promised to do whatever the Pentagon systems analysts told him .
Then he canceled production of the Navy 's most important carrier aircraft , the F-14 and the A-6 .
On the other hand , Mr. Cheney retained all those new land forces .
Marshall 's ghost is satisfied for now , but he 'll be back .
They know that they can hold off the ghosts only a little while longer by cutting carriers and ships .
Mr. Lehman , a Reagan Navy secretary , is a managing director of PaineWebber .
By midnight Oct. 6 , all of the paintings were supposed to have been sold off , under orders from Florida 's comptroller , whose office regulates the state 's S&Ls .
The acquisitions , officials said in a letter to Mr. Paul , were `` unsafe , unsound and unauthorized . ''
The comptroller 's office says it is `` monitoring the situation . ''
Though the agency could remove Mr. Paul , it has no current intention to do that .
`` The last six months has established the quality of the collection .
There 's no fire sale here . ''
Although Mr. Paul has pared a $ 1.35 billion junk-bond portfolio to less than $ 900 million since April , the high-yield debt market has plummeted .
Late last week federal regulators ordered the thrift institution to stop paying dividends on its preferred stock -- a move that suggests deep concern about an institution .
The great collectors we depended on , such as Paul Mellon or Norton Simon , have stopped buying , and the new buyers are brilliant men who made money in the stock market or in takeovers and rushed into collecting ... . ''
-LRB- Trouble is , Mr. Bond has yet to pay up , and until he does , Sotheby 's has the painting under lock and key . -RRB-
There , on one of his first shopping trips , Mr. Paul picked up several paintings at stunning prices .
The price paid was a record for the artist .
The rest were withdrawn for lack of acceptable bids . -RRB-
`` And he tells me , ` If you want to see your paintings , you 'll have to come to my house in Florida . ' ''
`` It 's just not true , '' he says .
Mr. Hall says Mr. Paul `` was known to spend a lot of money .
Mr. Paul thus developed a close , symbiotic relationship with Sotheby 's .
European dealers continued to dominate the action in old masters , which Sotheby 's North America had lately been touting in this country .
For several months , there was optimism all around .
`` An unknown quantity to most of the art world , Paul is no stranger to lavish spending , '' the magazine said , noting that he does n't stop at paint on canvas but also spends big on art you can eat .
`` He recently bid $ 30,000 at a Paris charity auction for a dinner cooked by six of the world 's great chefs , but the final party cost closer to $ 100,000 . ''
-LRB- Mr. Paul says it was n't that high . -RRB-
The comptroller 's office eventually extended the deadline to six months but broadened its demands , ordering that the `` book value of the collection -LCB- be -RCB- reduced to zero . ''
In other words : Get rid of all the pictures .
Mr. Paul says that at one point he did indeed have eight or nine of the paintings at home and that the rest were in storage at Sotheby 's .
Still , the incident was embarrassing .
Still , predicting is tricky .
`` I 'm forever dumbfounded by what I see making these high prices . ''
`` Most of them were n't even born the last time the painting was displayed publicly , '' he says .
Art prices are skyrocketing , but a good deal of legerdemain is involved in compiling statistics on sales .
Salomon Brothers Inc. , the investment-banking firm , in its annual tally of investment returns , reported that old masters appreciated 51 % in the year ended June 1 , the greatest return of any of 13 assets it tracked .
Salomon , moreover , gets its data on art appreciation from Sotheby 's , whose prices go up with clients like Mr. Paul in its thrall .
The percentages omit from consideration the many paintings that go begging at auction .
Art indexes track winners , not losers .
But art that has fallen sharply in value is rarely put up for sale .
Also , at any of Sotheby 's auctions of old masters , roughly one-third to one-fifth of what is offered does n't sell at any price .
It 's not that there are n't any bids , but the bids do n't meet the minimum `` reserve '' prices set by the sellers .
-LRB- The painting is 10 feet wide , seven feet high . -RRB-
Rather , `` It just shows things have changed . ''
Mr. Paul boasts that he spotted bargains in old masters just before they took an upward turn .
`` They went up 51 % last year , and they 'll do it again this year , '' he declares .
Everybody was out buying Monets . ''
Mr. Paul claims to have sold three paintings , at more than a 10 % profit .
That is n't 51 % , and the claim is n't documented .
That is , he is being compelled to put them on the market too soon , and has already gotten offers that are less than he paid for some of the art works .
People hold out and try to get a bargain . ''
Sotheby 's defends itself and Mr. Paul in the matter .
Sotheby 's , she says , is `` wearing both hats . ''
`` Estimates are based on the previous price of similar works sold at auction and current market conditions , and are not affected by any knowledge of who the potential buyer could be . ''
Mr. Paul , in selling off his paintings , is seeking at least a 15 % return on the bank 's investment , so as to prove that the venture was sound .
But so far , Mr. Paul and his advisers are holding fast .
They were protecting his interests . ''
The media , she says , have distorted his personal life .
Mr. Paul nods in agreement .
`` I do n't think I have a life style that is , frankly , so flamboyant , '' he says .
`` Do n't say it 's a gold ceiling .
Just say the offices are tastefully appointed , '' he says .
`` Otherwise , the regulators will take it for decadence , and nowadays everything 's got to be pristine . ''
Figures do n't include taxes or transaction costs .
Companies listed below reported quarterly profit substantially different from the average of analysts ' estimates .
The companies are followed by at least three analysts , and had a minimum five-cent change in actual earnings per share .
Estimated and actual results involving losses are omitted .
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days .
Otherwise , actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate .
-LCB- During its centennial year , The Wall Street Journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of American business history . -RCB-
Francis M. Wheat , a former Securities and Exchange Commission member , headed the panel that had studied the issues for a year and proposed the FASB on March 30 , 1972 .
The former board had produced `` 21 opinions and 1,000 critics '' in its 12-year life , its chairman had conceded .
The climate was right for the new FASB .
Also , James Needham , an SEC commissioner , in April 1972 had warned that the industry might face a `` federal agency writing accounting rules '' if they rejected the FASB idea .
The FASB had its initial meeting on March 28 , 1973 .
On Dec. 13 , 1973 , it issued its first rule ; it required companies to disclose foreign currency translations in U.S. dollars .
Since late 1987 , for example , it has put off a rule dealing with deferred income taxes because of the continuing controversy over the issue .
The metal products concern currently has 7.2 million common shares outstanding .
The company named Dillon Read & Co. as its exclusive agent for the stock buy-back program .
A seat on the Chicago Board of Trade was sold for $ 390,000 , down $ 5,000 from the previous sale last Tuesday .
The record price for a full membership on the exchange is $ 550,000 , set Aug. 31 , 1987 .
The record price for associate membership is $ 275,000 , set Aug. 30 , 1988 .
It is scheduled for delivery in late 1991 .
Union Federal , a federally insured savings bank , has $ 2.4 billion in assets .
The latest earnings reflect an increase of about 5.5 million in common shares outstanding .
Revenue rose 3 % to $ 1.52 billion from $ 1.48 billion .
Reynolds is the third big aluminum company since Friday to report disappointing earnings .
The No. 1 domestic aluminum producer , Aluminum Co. of America , Friday said its earnings fell 3.2 % to $ 219 million , or $ 2.46 a share .
And Alcan Aluminium Ltd. yesterday reported net income slid 30 % to $ 180 million , or 77 cents a share , from $ 258 million , or $ 1.07 a share .
The base metal price has dropped 30.3 % from a year earlier to 78 cents a pound .
Much of the price decline has been blamed on a slowing economy and the third quarter is typically the industry 's slowest period .
He said shipments are continuing at a `` healthy '' pace and the company has no excess inventory .
Nevertheless , the company said that in the latest quarter there were increased material and labor costs , including a new employee profit-sharing plan .
That 's how the stock-picking game is shaping up for the months ahead , according to money managers and a few brokers .
But quite a few money managers are n't buying it .
He suspects that Friday 's market decline may have a second leg , perhaps a 10 % to 15 % drop later on .
With flat corporate profits on the horizon for 1990 , money managers say price-earnings multiples that look cheap today might go on being cheap for a long time .
`` This is not a grossly overvalued market , but it 's not cheap either , '' says George Collins , president of the mutual fund company T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore .
According to Institutional Brokers Estimate System , Wall Street market strategists see only a 2.4 % jump in company profits in 1990 -- unlike in 1987 , when profits a year out looked good -LRB- they did soar 36 % in 1988 -RRB- .
Bulls say the market is an incredible bargain , priced at only about 12 times estimated 1989 earnings for stocks in the Standard & Poor 's 500 index .
Before the 1987 crash , the P/E was more than 20 .
The common view , says Abby Cohen , strategist for Drexel Burnham Lambert , is that there will be `` mild economic growth , modest profit expansion , and things are going to be hunky-dory .
Our view is that we may see a profit decline . ''
Some think investors should sell into rallies .
The market `` is going to wind down , '' says Gerald W. Perritt , a Chicago money manager .
`` Things are a little less overpriced '' after Friday 's jolt in the market .
After Friday 's decline , Mr. Perritt 's firm ran statistical tests on 100 high-quality stocks , using old-fashioned value criteria devised by Benjamin Graham , an analyst and author in the 1930s and 1940s who is widely considered to be the father of modern securities analysis .
He found 85 still overvalued and 15 fairly valued .
Nicholas Parks , a New York money manager , expects the market to decline about 15 % .
`` I 've been two-thirds in cash since July , and I continue to think that having a defensive position is appropriate , '' he says .
Companies that piled on debt in leveraged buy-outs during the past two years `` will continue to surface as business problems . ''
For instance , he says , International Business Machines and Unisys might look cheap , but investors might continue to do better with stocks like Walt Disney , Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola , strong performers in recent years .
Money manager Robert Ross , head of Duncan Ross Associates Ltd. in Vancouver , British Columbia , says stocks would have to fall 15 % to 20 % before they are competitive with less risky investment alternatives .
There are still bulls out there .
`` We 're doing a little buying '' in some stocks `` that have really been smashed down . ''
Many brokerage house officials also are optimistic .
Yesterday , Goldman Sachs , Merrill Lynch and Dean Witter all increased the proportion of assets they recommend investors commit to stocks .
Dean Witter now recommends 85 % , Goldman 65 % and Merrill Lynch 50 % .
`` It was a healthy cleansing , '' says Michael Holland , who runs Salomon Brothers Asset Management in New York .
From here out , these investors see a return to old-fashioned investing , based on a company 's ability to show profit growth .
`` I do n't see this as a bear market at all .
Friday 's big fall was `` just a blunder by the stock market , '' says John Connolly , chief strategist for Dean Witter .
Many investors have nagging worries , however .
Newspapers are full of headlines about companies defaulting on their debts and banks writing off real estate loans .
That hurts investors ' confidence in the economy and stocks .
Not even all the brokerage firms see clear sailing ahead .
`` Disappointing profits are likely to get worse in the next two quarters , '' says Mary Farrell , a market strategist at PaineWebber .
She thinks the market could drop about 10 % in the next few months , then recover and go higher .
Companies with steady earnings growth could do well , she says , while others with high debt or poor earnings could see their shares decline far more than 10 % .
The turmoil on Wall Street may benefit some retailers attempting to lead leveraged buy-outs of their specialty and department-store chains , investment bankers and retailers said .
Managers at five chains have said in recent weeks that they intend to bid for their companies .
Hooker is based in Sydney , Australia .
The combination of so many chains available for sale , the recent failures of such retailing LBO 's as Miller & Rhoads Inc. and declining investor confidence will drive down prices , retailing observers said .
`` The pricing will become more realistic , which should help management , '' said Bruce Rosenthal , a New York investment banker with Nathan S. Jonas & Co .
`` Investors are n't going to be throwing money at any of the proposed LBOs , but doing deals on the basis of ridiculous assumptions never made sense , either . ''
Earlier this year , bankers and other investors were willing to provide financing because they assumed there would be major gains in both profitability and sales , Mr. Rosenthal added .
Those days are over now , he believes .
`` Competition from third parties who have cash and are prepared to buy has always existed and will continue , '' added Mr. Rosenthal .
`` But when prices were crazy , it was even harder to do an LBO .
This is no longer true today . ''
`` It would also help us in our search for equity partners .
To make an LBO work , now we are going to need more than just junk bonds .
'' None believe the proposed management LBOs will be easy to complete , especially at B. Altman & Co. , which is under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection .
Not only could the Wall Street gyrations damp Christmas sales if consumers lose confidence in the economy , but potential junk-bond buyers are sure to demand even stronger covenants and greater management equity participation .
`` It 's called bad money driving out good money , '' said one retailing observer .
`` Institutions that usually buy retail paper have to be more concerned . ''
However , the lower prices these retail chains are now expected to bring should make it easier for managers to raise the necessary capital and pay back the resulting debt .
In addition , the fall selling season has generally been a good one , especially for those retailers dependent on apparel sales for the majority of their revenues .
`` What 's encouraging about this is that retail chains will be sold on the basis of their sales and earnings , not liquidation values , '' said Joseph E. Brooks , chairman and chief executive officer of Ann Taylor Inc. , a specialty chain .
`` Retailers who had good track records of producing profits will have a better chance to buy back their companies . ''
Still , most retailing observers expect that all the proposed retailing LBOs will depend partly on the sale of junk bonds , a market already in tumult , in part because of concerns associated with bonds issued by the Federated and Allied units of Campeau .
`` But the hurdle of financing still has to be resolved .
Potential bondholders will either look for greater equity participation on behalf of management , or insist the equity component of the deals be substantially greater than in the past .
The judge held that the combination of colors used for the Sony products is distinctive and subject to protection under New York state law , rather than federal law .
The legal fight was the subject of a Wall Street Journal story yesterday .
He also repeated Justin 's denial of Sony 's charges .
The Dallas real estate investment trust last paid a dividend on Dec. 31 , 1987 , when shareholders received $ 1 a share .
Despite continuing troubles with problem assets and nonperforming loans , the trust said it expects to be able to maintain or increase the rate of distributions because of operations of joint-venture properties .
FERC 's regulation had given pipelines until March 31 , 1989 , to pass on to customers as much as 50 % of the costs of buying out their broken contracts , which were made with producers when gas prices were high and supplies short .
A majority of old contracts were renegotiated by the deadline and settled at steep discounts .
But pipeline companies estimate they still face $ 2.4 billion in liabilities from unresolved disputes , including $ 1 billion they fear they wo n't be able to pass on to customers .
According to industry lawyers , the ruling gives pipeline companies an important second chance to resolve remaining disputes and take advantage of the cost-sharing mechanism .
The court left open whether FERC could reimpose a new deadline later .
A report last month by the Interstate Natural Gas Association of America found that pipelines ' settlement costs had jumped in the three months before the deadline to 39 cents on the dollar , from 22 cents on the dollar in 1988 .
The court ordered FERC to justify within 60 days not only its cost-sharing deadline , but other major elements of its proposed regulation for introducing more competition into natural-gas transportation .
The complex regulation , known in the industry as Order 500 , has been hotly contested by all sides , including natural-gas producers , pipelines , local distribution companies and consumers .
The court 's decision would allow FERC to change some of its provisions , but ensures it will be reviewed again quickly by the court .
After the payment , the Cleveland company owes $ 57 million on the loan .
The cement producer said the payment was made from excess cash flow .
The mortgage and equity real estate investment trust last paid a dividend on Aug. 1 , 1988 , when holders received 75 cents a share .
The agreement is subject to completion of a definitive amendment and appropriate approvals .
Terms were n't disclosed .
Dow Jones is the publisher of The Wall Street Journal .
It said the sales were part of a 1983 Federal Trade Commission Consent Order .
The industry used 82.2 % of its capability last week , compared with 82.8 % the previous week and 84 % a year ago .
The capability utilization rate is a calculation designed to indicate at what percent of its production capability the industry is operating in a given week .
Terms were n't disclosed .
The service supplies weekly reports on school and college construction plans .
The plans include a subway system , a congress center , floating trees , fanciful fountains -- and as many as 60,000 additional tourists a day .
Expo enthusiasts argue that holding the fair would attract businesses , create jobs and help renovate abandoned sections of town .
But opponents fear overcrowding .
Three gambling casinos have opened in Poland .
Not all Poles are pleased .
`` What do we want casinos for when we have n't got anything in the shops ? '' one housewife asked .
Algeria plans to increase natural-gas sales to Europe and the U.S. .
Algeria also wants to build a pipeline through Morocco and across the Strait of Gibraltar to supply Spain , France and West Germany with up to 15 billion cubic meters a year by the late 1990s .
South Africa 's National Union of Mineworkers agreed to suspend the strike by diamond workers and resume negotiations with De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. over their wage dispute , De Beers said .
It also said the union had agreed to meet the company for further talks tomorrow .
The union has demanded a 37.6 % increase in the minimum wage while De Beers 's final offer was an increase of 17 % .
The other two options consist of swapping loans for bonds with 6.25 % interest rates , or providing fresh loans .
The accord , which covers $ 52.7 billion of Mexico 's medium - and long-term debt , is expected to go into effect in early
The amount is equal to about 30 years earnings for the average peasant , who makes $ 145 a year ... .
Proceeds will be used to commercialize recently patented technology and support the company 's international expansion .
The company develops and markets products for the food service industry .
In yesterday 's edition , it was incorrectly included with a list of New York chains up for sale .
They are enjoying domestic sales that are more than making up for lost overseas sales .
South Korean consumers are expected to buy almost 500,000 passenger cars this year , up 60 % from 1988 .
In fact , some auto executives suggest that slackened demand for their cars in the U.S. and Canada is a blessing ; otherwise they would n't be able to keep up with demand in the more profitable local market .
As it is , waiting lists of a month are n't unusual for popular models .
Industry analysts predict that by 1995 , South Korea will be building three million cars a year -- about half of that for export .
It 's an optimistic move in a industry already facing world-wide overcapacity .
But South Korean auto makers are confident that the export market will bounce back and that demand in Korea will stay strong .
Currently only one in 38 South Koreans owns a car , up from one in 200 a decade ago .
`` In the year 2000 it will be one car per family .
The reason for the tremendous demand is simple : South Koreans suddenly have a lot more money .
Pay raises of 60 % over the past three years have given many South Koreans the money to enjoy the things they were supplying the rest of the world .
The most popular style is the stretched `` Family , '' which resembles a Ford Bronco or Chevy Blazer .
It sees sales rising 45 % to 26,000 units next year .
The company plans to expand plant capacity 50 % by 1991 .
By then it also hopes to begin producing a passenger car based on the Volvo 240 and selling for about $ 20,000 .
It plans to sell 1,700 units in 1989 .
Along with two larger models , the company claims 18 % of the domestic market .
Daewoo Motor , a 50-50 joint venture with General Motors Corp. and the Daewoo Group conglomerate , is the only auto maker that appears to be hurting .
Moreover , Daewoo 's domestic sales have grown half as fast as sales of its rivals .
The big problem for Daewoo , which holds about 21 % of the market , is the long series of labor disruptions it suffered this year .
But Daewoo is expanding too .
In fact , a sister company , Daewoo Shipbuilding and Heavy Machinery , plans to build 240,000 minicars by the mid-1990s .
Hyundai , the Korean market leader with a 58 % share , also plans to jump into minicars at the same time .
It has a similar project for 200,000 cars a year .
Both posts had been vacant .
Many skittish mutual fund investors picked up the phone yesterday , but decided not to cash in their chips after all .
As the stock market bounced back , withdrawals of money from stock funds amounted to a mere trickle compared with Black Monday , when investors dumped $ 2.3 billion , or about 2 % of stock-fund assets .
Fidelity Investments , the nation 's largest fund company , said phone volume was more than double its typical level , but still half that of Oct. 19 , 1987 .
Net outflows from Fidelity 's stock funds stood at less than $ 300 million , or below 15 % of the $ 2 billion cash position of the firm 's stock portfolios .
Much of the money was switched into the firm 's money market funds .
Outflows since the close of trading Friday remain below one-third their level of two years ago , Fidelity said .
Other mutual fund companies reported even lighter withdrawal requests .
And some investors at Fidelity and elsewhere even began buying stock funds during the day .
`` Two years ago , there was a lot of redemption activity and trouble with people getting through on the phone , '' said Kathryn McGrath , head of the investment management division of the Securities and Exchange Commission .
This time , `` We do n't have that at all . ''
And any strong surge in redemptions could force some funds to dump stocks to raise cash , as some did during Black Monday .
But funds generally are better prepared this time around .
As a group , their cash position of 10.2 % of assets in August -- the latest figure available -- is 14 % higher than two years earlier .
Many fund managers have boosted their cash levels in recent weeks .
The biggest flurry of investor activity came early in the day .
Vanguard Group Inc. saw heavy exchanges from stock funds into money market funds after the telephone lines opened at 8:30 a.m .
`` In the first hour , the real nervous folks came along , '' a spokesman said .
Most of that increase came in the first hour after the phone lines opened at 8 a.m .
As stocks rose , in fact , some investors changed course and reversed their sell orders .
Many funds allow investors to void orders before the close of trading .
Because mutual fund trades do n't take effect until the market close -- in this case , at 4 p.m. -- these shareholders effectively stayed put .
At Fidelity 's office in downtown Boston , Gerald Sherman walked in shortly after 7:30 a.m. and placed an order to switch his retirement accounts out of three stock funds and into a money market fund .
But by 3:15 p.m. , with the market comfortably ahead for the day , Mr. Sherman was preparing to undo his switch .
`` It 's a nice feeling to know that things stabilized , '' said Mr. Sherman , the 51-year-old co-owner of a discount department store .
But some investors continued to switch out of high-risk , high-yield junk funds despite yesterday 's rebound from that market 's recent price declines .
Much of the money has been switched into money market funds , fund executives say .
Instead of selling bonds to meet redemptions , however , some funds have borrowed from banks to meet withdrawal requests .
The $ 1.1 billion T. Rowe Price High Yield Fund was among the funds that borrowed during the Campeau crisis , says George J. Collins , president of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc .
That way , Mr. Collins says , `` We did n't have to sell securities in a sloppy market . ''
When the market stabilized , he added , the firm sold the bonds and quickly paid the loans back .
Tom Herman contributed to this article .
For the first nine months of 1989 , Central earned $ 2 million .
Central 's assets are $ 240 million .
-LRB- During its centennial year , The Wall Street Journal will report events of the past century that stand as milestones of American business history . -RRB-
The Food and Drug Administration that day said Bausch & Lomb could start selling them in the U.S. .
But the new lens became the eye of a storm .
And there were Senate hearings on the questions in July 1972 .
The early soft lenses , which cost $ 300 a set , were expected to last for a year .
Eighteen months ago a `` disposable '' seven-day model bowed ; a year 's supply costs about $ 500 .
Today 20 million of the 25 million Americans using contact lenses are using the soft type .
Although Bausch remains the leader among the six majors , Johnson & Johnson , with its new disposables , is coming on fast .
The roller-coaster stock market is making life tougher for small companies trying to raise money .
As in other jittery times , many small businesses expect a particularly rough time raising funds as investors shun risky deals , seeking safety in bigger companies .
`` The more variables that indicate risk , the more the investor is going to drive a hard bargain . ''
But with the company 's shares standing at $ 15 yesterday , a new offering seems unlikely , company officials say .
Other companies figure they ca n't avoid the market .
Unless the market goes right back up , he says , `` it may take us six to nine months to find the money , instead of three . ''
And the Columbia , Md. , company may have to settle for a lower price , he adds .
Robertson , Stephens & Co. , a San Francisco investment banking concern , has a client that looked forward to making its initial public offering yesterday .
As the market dropped Friday , Robertson Stephens slashed the value of the offering by 7 % .
`` But the tunnel 's just gotten longer . ''
If it does n't , he says , the company would have to change its expansion timetable .
But the market turmoil could be partially beneficial for some small businesses .
For small companies , he says , interest rates are far more important than what happens on stock exchanges .
Peter Drake , biotechnology analyst for Vector Securities International , Chicago , thinks market uncertainty may encourage small companies to form more strategic alliances with big corporations .
Partly because the 1987 market crash made it harder for them to find financing , many high-technology concerns have made such alliances recently .
Some even see a silver lining in the dark clouds .
Instead , they could turn to investing in smaller deals involving smaller companies , he says .
This will add to the appeal of small business , he says , where investors often have a degree of influence .
Bay Financial Corp. , hurt by high debts and deteriorating real estate investments , reported a wider loss for the fourth quarter and said it might be forced to seek a bankruptcy-court reorganization if it ca n't renegotiate its borrowings .
Bay said a `` substantial part '' of its debt outstanding is in default as a result of inability to sell certain properties quickly and lower-than-expected prices for sales made .
Thus it is coming up short on a big bet that quick sales at higher prices would enable it to keep up with mortgage and other debt payments .
According to its latest annual report , about a quarter of the company 's holdings are in Massachusetts , in the midst of a real-estate slump .
A year earlier , the company had a loss of $ 10.8 million , or $ 3.04 a share , on revenue of $ 10.8 million .
For the year , it had a net loss of $ 62 million , or $ 15.97 a share , on revenue of $ 44.3 million .
Annualized interest rates on certain investments as reported by the Federal Reserve Board on a weekly-average basis : 1989 and Wednesday October 4 , 1989 .
The electronics , automotive and aerospace concern said third-quarter net was $ 60 million , or 98 cents a share , down from $ 68 million , or $ 1.11 a share , a year earlier .
Share earnings are reported on a fully diluted basis , by company tradition .
The latest quarter included a gain of 11 cents a share as a partial reversal of the recall charge , because the reserve established last year exceeded the actual recall costs .
Sales for the quarter rose 8.3 % to $ 1.79 billion , from $ 1.65 billion , with all three major product groups reporting gains .
The group had an operating profit of $ 65 million , against a loss of $ 13 million a year earlier .
The information systems segment had a 44 % jump sales to $ 196 million .
Sales rose 2.9 % to $ 5.42 billion , from $ 5.27 billion .
The mask cuts to the quick .
It 's 1956 , the year the Suez crisis marked the final end of Empire .
It is the very lack of obvious drama or spectacle that sets the beauty of our land apart .
An effusive landscape ?
His answer is one `` possessed of a dignity in keeping with his position . ''
You see , I know my father would have wished me to carry on just now . ''
It is this kind of dignity and restraint that allows Stevens to declare : `` For all its sad associations , whenever I recall that evening today , I find I do so with a large sense of triumph . ''
' This is loyalty intelligently bestowed . ''
I ca n't even say I made my own mistakes .
What is dignity ?
The price was n't disclosed .
That 's not all , he says .
Hardly .
And as Aeroflot struggles to boost its service standards , upgrade its fleet and pursue commercial opportunities , the Irish aviation industry seems poised to benefit .
`` They look the same .
They 're very friendly . ''
`` We have to study their experience very well , '' he says .
`` We must find any way to get business . ''
The two groups have been working together since the late 1970s , long before Soviet joint ventures were the rage in the West .
Aeroflot carried about 125 million passengers last year , and Shannon Airport , the airline 's largest transit airport outside the Soviet Union , saw 1,400 Aeroflot flights and 250,000 passengers pass through .
The airport 's biggest supplier of aircraft fuel is the Soviet Union .
Aeroflot thus pays its landing fees , ground-handling and catering bills with fuel , preserving its hard currency .
That is n't all .
Aeroflot 's international fleet of 285 planes is being repainted and refurbished at Shannon Airport .
New trade accords were signed .
It all started with geography .
Britain 's industrial production rose 1.5 % in August from July and was up 0.9 % from August 1988 , according to provisional data from the Central Statistical Office .
Output in the energy sector , which can vary greatly with swings in the oil market , rose 3.8 % in August from May but was down 7.1 % from a year earlier .
The latest figures compare with July 's 4.5 % month-to-month rise and 11.3 % year-to-year fall .
The new technology , which creates a very thin piece of steel , radically reduces the costs of making flat-rolled sheets .
`` Everyone in the world is watching us very closely . ''
Especially his neighbors , the major U.S. steelmakers .
Says the chief executive officer of a major Midwest steel company : `` It 's damn worrisome . ''
New , efficient and sophisticated processes make it easier for smaller , less cash-rich companies to make steel at a fraction of what Big Steel paid decades ago .
`` There 's a revolution ahead of us that will ultimately change the way we market and distribute steel , '' says William Dennis , vice president , manufacturing and technology , for the American Iron Ore and Steel Institute .
It is n't that major steelmakers have blithely ignored high technology .
Moreover , their balance sheets are rich with diversity , their old plants shuttered , and work forces lean .
`` It 's no longer enough to beat the guy down the street .
You have to beat everyone around the world , '' says Mr. Dennis .
He wants to see steelmakers more involved in computers and artificial intelligence .
The problem : They 're saddled with huge plants that require costly maintenance .
`` The technology revolution is going to be very threatening to established producers , '' says Peter Marcus , an analyst with PaineWebber Inc .
`` They 've got too much invested in the old stuff and they ca n't get their workers to be flexible . ''
Still , flat-rolled is the steel industry 's bread and butter , representing about half of the 80 million tons of steel expected to be shipped this year .
Moreover , the process is n't without its headaches .
Because all operations are connected , one equipment failure forces a complete plant shutdown .
Indeed , with demand for steel not growing fast enough to absorb capacity , steelmakers will have to change the way they do business .
`` We said : ` We 've got a product : if you want it , you can buy it , ' '' he says , adding : `` Now we 're figuring out what people need , and are going back to make it . ''
Armco 's sales representatives visit the General Motors Corp. 's Fairfax assembly plant in Kansas City , Mo. , two or three days a week .
When they determined that GM needed parts more quickly , Armco convinced a steel service center to build a processing plant nearby so shipments could be delivered within 15 minutes .
But steelmakers must also find new markets .
Still others are looking at overseas markets .
But unfortunately , that segment is much smaller than the bread-and-butter flat-rolled steel .
`` After a while , someone has to go over the side . ''
Although he does n't expect any bankruptcies , he does see more plants being sold or closed .
Robert Crandall , with the Brookings Institute , agrees .
`` Unless there is an enormous rate of economic growth or a further drop in the dollar , it 's unlikely that consumption of U.S. produced steel will grow sufficiently to offset the growth of minimills . ''
Not to mention the incursion of imports .
Japanese and European steelmakers , which have led the recent technology developments , are anxiously awaiting the lifting of trade restraints in 1992 .
`` People think of the steel business as an old and mundane smokestack business , '' says Mr. Iverson .
`` They 're dead wrong . ''
* USX , LTV , Bethlehem , Inland , Armco , National Steel
After 78 days of mind-numbing testimony in federal court in Boston , the trial is being all but ignored by analysts and patent attorneys .
That may be the largest patent award ever , but it is well below the $ 12 billion Polaroid seeks .
The two companies later agreed to settle for $ 95 million .
And Eugene Glazer , an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. , said : `` If you hired an attorney to be there all the time and give you a -LRB- prediction -RRB- of the eventual award , I would be willing to bet that he would be off '' by a lot .
The main issues remaining are how to calculate damages and whether the infringement was `` willful and deliberate . ''
If so , the damages could be tripled .
It 's difficult to be that consistently wrong . ''
Polaroid claims it could have manufactured and sold all the instant cameras and film sold by Kodak if Kodak had n't entered the market .
Moreover , Polaroid contends it could have sold them at a higher price -- and thus made higher profits -- because it would n't have been forced to match Kodak 's lower prices .
Each side has called a Harvard Business School professor to testify on that issue .
A decision is n't expected until some time next year .
International Business Machines Corp. said earnings tumbled 30 % in the third quarter , even a bit further than expected , rendering the outlook doubtful for the next few quarters .
The main reason was a delay in shipment of new high-end disk drives , a business that accounts for some 10 % of IBM 's $ 60 billion of annual revenue .
IBM , which telegraphed the poor results three weeks ago , also cited an increase in its leasing business , which tends to lock in business long-term but cut revenue in the near term .
In addition , IBM noted that the stronger dollar has cut the value of overseas revenue and earnings when they are translated into dollars .
IBM , Armonk , N.Y. , remained upbeat .
The computer giant , whose U.S. results have been dismal for years , noted that revenue rose again in the U.S. in the third quarter , following an increase in the second period .
The company said in a statement that `` demand for IBM products and services continues to be good world-wide .
We do not see anything in the fundamentals of our business that would cause us to change our strategy of investing for profitable growth . ''
Securities analysts , however , remained downbeat .
`` I think 1990 will be another mediocre year , '' said Steve Milunovich of First Boston .
Jay Stevens of Dean Witter actually cut his per-share earnings estimate to $ 9 from $ 9.50 for 1989 and to $ 9.50 from $ 10.35 in 1990 because he decided sales would be even weaker than he had expected .
Both estimates would mark declines from the 1988 net of $ 5.81 billion , or $ 9.80 a share , which itself was well below the record IBM set in 1984 .
The stock closed yesterday at $ 103 a share , up just $ 1 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange as the market surged .
Analysts worry that the disk-drive and leasing problems will last at least through the first quarter .
`` A key part of the question is , how soon does this disk-drive come and how soon does production ramp up ? '' said Steve Cohen at SoundView Financial Group .
`` And the input I 've had from customers is that it still could be a while . ''
He said IBM has priced its leases aggressively , thinking that would help win business .
But he said IBM would have won the business anyway as a sale to a third party that would have then leased the equipment to the customer .
He said IBM has not only hurt its short-term revenue outlook but has also been losing money on its leases .
But the basic technology in the line is almost five years old , which means it is long in the tooth , and competitors are rolling out strong products of their own .
IBM is gaining momentum in the personal-computer market , and is expected to introduce some impressive workstations early next year .
But it 's hard to squeeze much profit out of the personal-computer business these days , and the workstation market , while important , is too small to rely on for much growth .
In addition , IBM 's growth in software in the third quarter was just 8.8 % , well below historical levels even when adjusted to reflect last year 's payment from Fujitsu and the stronger dollar .
And expenses , up 7.9 % in the quarter , have stayed stubbornly high .
PepsiCo Inc. 's chairman said he is `` more than comfortable with '' analysts ' estimates that third-quarter earnings rose to at least 98 cents to $ 1 a share from 91 cents the year earlier .
After today 's announcement , that range could increase to $ 3.35 to $ 3.40 a share .
The official said he also would be comfortable with that new range .
In 1988 , the soft-drink giant earned $ 2.90 a share .
The company said third-quarter sales are expected to increase 25 % from $ 3.12 billion of last year 's third quarter .
PepsiCo said its soft-drink prices were about 2 % higher in the quarter .
International soft-drink volume was up about 6 % .
Led by Pizza Hut and Taco Bell , restaurant earnings increased about 25 % in the third quarter on a 22 % sales increase .
But , `` You never can tell , '' he added , `` you have to take advantage of opportunities .
The FERC is a five-member commission that regulates billions of dollars of interstate wholesale energy transactions .
Administration officials said a date for Ms. Hesse 's departure has n't been set .
The company said it hopes to resume its schedule of regular quarterly dividends at the end of this year .
Central Maine said it is evaluating `` many energy options '' to make up for the lost future power , including new energy generation and management proposals from New England , and possibly new Canadian purchases .
CHICAGO - Options traders were among the big victims of Friday 's plunging stock market , including one small firm that required an emergency $ 50 million bailout .
While Monday 's rebounding markets helped other investors recoup losses , many options customers and professional traders in stock-index options and the options on takeover stocks were left with multimillion-dollar losses , traders here and in New York said .
Options traders were hurt worse than others on Friday because of the highly volatile nature of options , which often rise or fall in value several times the amount of the price change in the individual stock or index of stocks on which they are based .
Thus , options traders Friday were stuck with losses that also were several times larger than those suffered by many stock traders in New York .
That may just be the nature of these highly leveraged little creatures . ''
An options contract gives the holder the right to buy -LRB- call -RRB- or sell -LRB- put -RRB- a specific amount of stock , or in this case the value of a stock index , based on a predetermined price within a given time period .
Options traders who , in return for a small fee , or premium , had previously sold put options on stocks or stock indexes were forced on Friday to buy those contracts back at the previously agreed prices , which were substantially above those in the market as it was falling .
They then had no choice in many cases but to sell the contracts at prevailing prices -- in most cases at a substantial loss .
The latest round of losses is likely to be a serious blow to the Chicago Board Options Exchange , which has never fully recovered from the aftershock of Black Monday , when investors fled the market because of huge losses .
Making matters worse was the fact that late Friday afternoon the CBOE halted stock-index options trading in step with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 's halt in stock-index futures .
But while the Merc reopened a half hour later , the CBOE remained closed , leaving many options traders unable to make trades that might have reduced the losses .
The damage was so bad at Fossett Corp. , an options trading firm here , that it was forced to transfer its accounts to First Options of Chicago , a unit of Continental Bank Corp. , as a result of options trading losses .
Fossett still had several million dollars in capital left after Friday 's close of trading , but not enough that regulators , worried about another potential market plunge yesterday , would let it reopen for trading , options exchange officials said .
Thus , in an unprecedented arrangement underscoring the seriousness of the transfer , the CBOE , the American Stock Exchange and the Options Clearing Corp. , as well as the firm 's owner , Stephen Fossett , put up a total of $ 50 million to guarantee the customer positions being transferred to the bank holding company subsidiary in case the market plunged again yesterday .
`` A package of credit support was put together -- including the assets of Steve and his firm . ''
First Options did n't have to put any money into the bailout .
Yesterday 's rally in the stock , futures and options markets led CBOE and Amex officials to conclude that the $ 50 million in guarantees almost certainly wo n't need to be tapped by First Options .
A federal official said that Continental Bank worked with securities and banking regulators over the weekend to fashion the Fossett bailout , but that conditions were n't dictated by those agencies .
`` It was their business decision , '' the official said .
Officials at Options Clearing Corp. , which processes all options trades for U.S. exchanges , said that the $ 50 million guarantee was unprecedented , but was necessary to help insure the integrity of the options markets .
Mr. Stevens declined to give the specific contributions to the $ 50 million guarantee from each participant .
But CBOE and Amex officials said that Options Clearing Corp. contributed $ 20 million to the guarantee , the CBOE put up $ 8 million , the Amex added $ 4 million and $ 18 million came from Mr. Fossett 's own assets .
Mr. Fossett could n't be reached to comment .
`` It 's like an oasis in this room , '' Ms. Foster purrs .
There , amid oil paintings and marble tables , massages are administered every Wednesday .
Nor does it at all resemble -LRB- despite what some executives think -RRB- the more intimate variety offered at specialty parlors in bad parts of town .
The massages last 15 minutes and typically cost about $ 10 .
Some companies , including Heinz , even pay part of the fee .
They also insist that touching is a basic need , as powerful as the need for food or sleep , and that the office is as good a place as any to do it .
`` When you leave the room after your massage , people say you look like you 're glowing . ''
Not everyone , however , is at ease with office massage .
Three years ago , the Internal Revenue Service 's office in San Jose , Calif. , opened its doors to on-site massage .
Last month , the complaints intensified and the massages ended .
`` Now we 're looking for a room with thicker walls , '' Ms. Banks says .
`` You build up a lot of tension working at a terminal all day , '' he says .
`` In my view , -LCB- massages -RCB- should be managed with an appropriate mixture of males and females around , '' he says .
Given such attitudes , some corporate masseurs prefer to go about their business quietly .
He visits the same department every two or three weeks .
Managers , he contends , `` are afraid how they 're going to look in the eyes of their peers .
My vision is to change human consciousness towards touch .
My attitude is : Let 's come out of the closet . ''
To help do this , Mr. Palmer developed a portable massage chair three years ago that he hopes will bring `` structured touching '' into mainstream America .
`` The culture is not ready to take off its clothes , lie down and be touched for an hour for $ 45 , '' he says .
`` The idea is to keep the clothes on and to keep people seated .
The chair is a way to package massage . ''
Three minutes into the massage , the man curled up , began shaking and turned red .
`` But he pulled through , and after the ambulance left , there were still six people in line waiting for a massage .
The next woman was older , and I was afraid to touch her .
But it 's like falling off a horse and getting back on . ''
`` There 's nothing like skin to skin .
In what is believed to be the first cancellation of a loan to China since the June 4 killings in Beijing , an international bank syndicate has terminated a $ 55 million credit for a Shanghai property project .
The syndicate , led by Schroders Asia Ltd. , agreed last November to provide the loan to Asia Development Corp. , a U.S. property developer .
But several weeks ago , in the wake of the Beijing killings , the loan was canceled , according to bankers and executives close to the project .
Asia Development and Schroders declined to comment on the move .
Lenders had doubts about the project even before June 4 , but the harsh crackdown , which caused many businesses to reassess their China transactions , `` gave the banks the out they wanted , '' says an official close to the Shanghai venture .
While some commercial lending has resumed , international lenders remain nervous about China 's economic troubles and foreign debt -- $ 40 billion at the end of 1988 .
The project , known as Lotus Mansion , has been mired in controversy .
When the loan agreement was announced , it was hailed as one of the first Western-style financing transactions ever used in China .
Instead , the banks secured a promise from state-owned Bank of Communications that it would lend Asia Development the entire $ 55 million at maturity to finance repayment of the original borrowing .
Instead , the creditors say , the loan fell victim to nervousness about China 's political turmoil , as well as to concern about the loan 's security .
The 11 banks in the syndicate sustained no monetary losses because none of the credit facility had been drawn down .
K mart , based in Troy , Mich. , recently said net income would fall for the third consecutive quarter , after a 16 % drop in the first half of its current fiscal year .
Warehouse clubs typically carry general merchandise and food products , which they sell for close to wholesale prices in no-frills stores .
The company had losses for several years before turning profitable in fiscal 1988 .
In the year ended Jan. 31 , Pace rang up profit of $ 9.4 million , or 72 cents a share , after a tax-loss carry-forward , on sales of $ 1.3 billion , and analysts expect its results to continue to improve .
`` Warehouse productivity is really beginning to take off . ''
But some analysts contend K mart has agreed to pay too much for Pace .
`` In my opinion , you would only pay that kind of price if you were getting a premier player in the industry . ''
`` If K mart ca n't get its act together in discounting , why is it spending time worrying about other growing markets ? ''
She said , `` I would say K mart 's number one job is to address its market-share loss -LCB- in discount stores -RCB- , which longer-term will lead to improved profit margins .
At that point , perhaps diversification would be appropriate . ''
But K mart 's Mr. Antonini is intent on pushing the company into new retail businesses .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , K mart closed yesterday at $ 36 a share , up 12.5 cents .
A K mart spokesman said the acquisition would be financed with short-term borrowings .
Under terms of the agreement , a K mart subsidiary will soon make a tender offer for Pace shares .
Among the conditions of the offer is that Pace shareholders tender a majority of the company 's shares outstanding .
The companies said Pace would ill continue to operate under its present management .
literally .
A minute later it soared 128 points , then zoomed back down 113 points , 69 below Friday 's close .
`` It was like flying without a pilot in the front of the plane . ''
But those who said `` This ca n't be happening '' were right .
The prices of the individual stocks that make up the average were correct , Quotron said , but the average was wrong .
Meanwhile , there was an awful lot of confusion .
At about 10:40 a.m. on the over-the-counter trading desk at a major brokerage firm , a veteran trader who buys and sells some of the most active stocks looked at a senior official and asked , `` What 's going on ?
Is the market up or down ? ''
At the time , Quotron was reporting that the industrial average was down 70 points .
In fact , it was up 24 .
Holly Stark , a vice president who heads the trading desk at Dillon Read Capital Corp. , said that once she figured out the Quotron numbers were wrong , she called brokers to tell them .
A spokesman cited a `` technical error '' and declined to elaborate .
`` It was a case of human error , which we found almost immediately and corrected , '' a spokesman for Reuter in New York said .
Meanwhile , some currency traders at West German banks in Frankfurt said they sold dollars on the news and had to buy them back later at higher prices .
But it was the Quotron problems that had lingering effects .
Dillon Read 's Ms. Stark said in early afternoon that she was still viewing prices and other data as subject to verification , and she said portfolio managers continued to question the numbers they saw on the screen .
It was the second time in less than a week that Quotron has had problems calculating the industrial average .
At the start of trading last Wednesday , the average appeared to plunge more than 200 points .
Actually , it was down only a few points at the time .
Quotron said that snafu , which lasted nine minutes , resulted from a failure to adjust for a 4-for-1 stock split at Philip Morris Cos .
A Quotron spokeswoman said recent software changes may have contributed to yesterday 's problems .
She said Quotron switched to a backup system until the problems were corrected .
`` Today of all days , '' she lamented .
`` The eyes of the world were watching us .
Steven F. Kaplan was named a senior vice president of this graphics equipment company .
He retains his current positions as chief strategic officer of AM International and president of AM Ventures .
So she has agreed to forgo monetary damages against Mr. Alexander 's client in return for the right to punch the attorney .
`` I never agreed to it , '' Mr. Alexander says , adding that `` it 's not necessary to pay these nuisance settlements . ''
Although time and place have yet to be determined , some details are in place .
Mr. Alexander says he regards the agreement , which has n't been submitted to a judge , as something of a joke .
After two years of drought , it rained money in the stock-index futures markets yesterday .
As financial markets rebounded , trading volume in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 's huge Standard & Poor 's 500 stock-index futures pit soared , reaching near-record levels for the first time since October 1987 .
The sudden influx of liquidity enabled several traders to reap six-figure windfalls in a matter of minutes as prices soared , traders said .
Each index point represents a $ 500 profit for each S&P 500 contract held .
For the first time since the 1987 crash , traders said that they were able to trade several hundred S&P 500 contracts at a time in a highly liquid market .
Many institutions and individual investors have shied away from stock-index futures , blaming them for speeding the stock market crash on Black Monday two years ago .
Since the crash , many futures traders have n't assumed large positions for fear that the S&P 500 market , with much of its customer order flow missing , would dry up if prices turned against them .
More than 400 traders jammed the S&P 500 futures pit to await the opening bell .
Traders were shouting bids and offers a full five minutes before the start of trading at 8:30 am
But several traders quickly stepped up and bid for contracts , driving prices sharply higher .
`` Traders five feet from each other were making bids and offers that were a full point apart , '' said one S&P 500 broker .
Several of Wall Street 's largest securities firms , including Salomon Brothers Inc. and PaineWebber Inc. , were also large buyers , traders said .
Salomon Brothers was among the largest sellers of stock-index futures last week , traders said .
Brokerage firms as a rule do n't comment on their market activity .
Unlike the week following Black Monday two years ago , individual traders in the S&P 500 pit were also being uncharacteristically circumspect about their one-day profits .
The market for $ 200 billion of high-yield junk bonds regained some of its footing as the Dow Jones Industrial Average rebounded from Friday 's plunge .
But the junk recovery , led by the bellwether RJR Holdings bonds , was precarious .
No trading existed for the vast majority of junk bonds , securities industry officials said .
On Friday , trading in practically every issue ground to a halt as potential buyers fled and brokerage firms were unwilling to provide bid and offer prices for most issues .
`` Nothing traded on Friday , and people were n't really sure where the market should have opened '' yesterday , said Raymond Minella , co-head of merchant banking at Merrill Lynch & Co .
`` But we had a fairly active day yesterday . ''
`` Now , I feel maybe there 's a little bit of euphoria . ''
But before the stock market rebounded from a sharp early sell-off yesterday , he said , `` You could n't buy -LCB- junk bonds -RCB- and you could n't give them away . ''
Yesterday 's rally was led by RJR Holdings 13 3/4 % bonds , which initially tumbled three points , or $ 30 for each $ 1,000 face amount , to 96 1/4 before rebounding to 99 3/4 .
`` Liquidity has n't returned to the vast middle ground of the market , '' said Mr. Minella of Merrill .
Analysts are concerned that much of the high-yield market will remain treacherous for investors .
Paul Asquith , associate professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology 's Sloan School of Management , citing a pattern of junk-bond default rates that are low in the early years after issuance and rise later , says , `` We 're now in a period where we 're starting to see defaults from the big issue years of 1984 to 1986 . ''
Mark Bachmann , a senior vice president at Standard & Poor 's Corp. , confirms that there is `` increasing concern about the future liquidity of the junk bond market . ''
`` There 's a whole bunch of stuff that 's money good and a whole bunch of stuff that 's not so good . ''
Analysts at Standard & Poor 's say junk bond offerings by `` tightly stretched '' issuers seem to be growing .
`` You could still have some very bad times ahead , '' said Mr. Bachmann .
`` It 's possible to have a 10 % default rate in one year , because we 're already seeing big problems in the midst of a pretty strong economy .
I 'm certainly not comfortable saying we 've seen the bottom . ''
Many issues `` bounced off the floor , '' Mr. Minella said , and benchmark junk issues `` recovered all of their losses '' from Friday and early yesterday .
In contrast , he says , `` The stock market gained back only about half what it lost Friday , and the -LCB- government -RCB- bond market lost about half what it gained Friday . ''
Traders said yesterday 's rally was fueled by insurance companies looking for bargains after a drastic slide in prices the past month .
In addition , mutual funds did n't appear to be major sellers of high-yield securities as was expected .
`` People will learn to be more circumspect .
I think the market is in good shape .
Should you really own stocks ?
That 's a question a lot of people are asking , following the stock market 's stunning display of volatility .
The answer , say academic researchers , money managers and investment specialists , is yes -- as long as you approach the stock market as an investor .
But , they say , people should n't try to be traders , who buy and sell in an effort to ride the latest economic trend or catch the next hot stock .
The case for owning stocks over the long-term is compelling .
`` If you look at 75 years worth of investment history -- including the Great Depression and every bear market since -- stocks have outperformed almost everything an individual could have owned by a long shot , '' says Barry Berlin , vice president at First Wachovia Capital Management .
The longer the time period , the less risk there is of losing money in the stock market .
Over time , the odds increasingly favor the investor with a diversified portfolio .
For instance , Ken Gregory , a San Francisco money manager , calculates that if an investor holds a basket of stocks that tracks the Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index , the chance of losing money is 3 % to 4 % over a 10-year period , compared with 15 % over three years and 30 % over one year .
`` If you do n't need the money for 10 years , there 's a clear-cut case for sticking to a steady core of stocks , '' Mr. Gregory says .
Stocks have a place in an investors ' portfolio along with real estate , bonds , international securities and cash , he says .
People also should n't invest money in stocks that they 'll need in the near future -- for example , for college tuition payments or retirement expenses .
But once the basics are covered , `` then I would start to invest , even if it 's as little as $ 1,000 , '' says Michael Lipper , president of Lipper Analytical Services Inc .
He says individuals should consider not just stocks , but other long-term investments , such as high-quality bonds .
Despite the strong case for stocks , however , most pros warn that individuals should n't try to profit from short-term developments .
`` Our markets move so fast and they are so volatile , there 's no way the average investor can compete with the pros . ''
Individual investors face high transaction costs of moving in and out of the market .
The cost of executing stock orders varies from brokerage to brokerage and with the size of the order , but 2 % of the order 's value is an average , says Stephen Boesel , manager of T. Rowe Price 's Growth and Income mutual fund .
And assuming their first investment is successful , investors will have to pay taxes on their gains .
That can reduce returns by a third or more , once local taxes are included , Mr. Lipper says .
After that , individual traders face the risk that the new investment they choose wo n't perform well -- so their trading costs could be sustained for nothing .
Then , too , many individual investors lack the sturdy emotional makeup professionals say is needed to plunge in and out of the market .
So what 's the best way to buy stocks ?
`` Unless an individual has a minimum of between $ 50,000 and $ 100,000 to invest in stocks , he 's still better off in mutual funds than in individual stocks , in terms of getting enough attention from a competent broker , '' says Mr. Lipper .
Still , he adds , `` I could see owning both , given that individuals often have an advantage over big investors in spotting special situations based on their own insights , '' he adds .
George Douglas , first vice president at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , says that individuals have a particular edge now in `` small to medium-size niche companies with exciting earnings prospects '' -- a traditional stomping ground for small investors .
This growth sector , which usually carries a price/earnings multiple about twice that of the Standard & Poor 's 500 , happens to include some of the market 's most attractive bargains right now .
`` It 's now selling at a multiple about even with the market , '' says Mr. Douglas .
Moreover , Mr. Douglas sees a revival of institutional interest in smaller growth stocks that could boost the performance of these stocks in the medium term .
Many big Wall Street brokerage firms who eliminated their research effort in stocks of emerging growth companies a few years ago are now resuming coverage of this area , he notes .
`` We 're seeing a real turnaround in interest in small growth stocks , '' he says .
The pros strenuously advise individuals to stay away from the latest investment fad .
They say that 's especially important this late in the growth phase of the economic cycle , when there 's no robust bull market to bail investors out of their mistakes .
Friday 's correction presents `` a pretty good buying opportunity , but let 's not speculate at this point in the business cycle , '' says Carmine Grigoli , chief equity portfolio strategist at First Boston Corp .
`` Buy stocks on weakness for their long-term fundamentals , '' he says .
In this method , a person invests a regular amount every month or quarter into the stock market whether the market is up or down .
That cuts the risk , Mr. Gregory , the San Francisco money manager , points out .
`` When the market is low , you are buying more shares , and when it 's high , you 're buying fewer shares , '' he says .
Otherwise , if you put all your money in at one time , by sheer bad luck , you might pick a terrible time , and have to wait three years to get even , Mr. Gregory says .
A disciplined program will work the best , Mr. Boesel says .
`` One of the hardest things to do is to buy stocks when the market is down , '' he says .
`` But that 's just the time when you should be buying them . ''
Compound annual returns , including price changes and income from interest and dividends
Jason Overseas Ltd. , initial offering of four million common shares , of which 3.2 million will be sold in the U.S. , and the balance outside the U.S. , via Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. and Mabon , Nugent & Co .
Donald Trump , who faced rising doubt about his bid for American Airlines parent AMR Corp. even before a United Airlines buy-out came apart Friday , withdrew his $ 7.54 billion offer .
But a lower bid could face rejection by the UAL board .
Mr. Trump , who vowed Wednesday to `` go forward '' with the bid , said he was dropping it `` in light of the recent change in market conditions . ''
He said he might now sell his AMR stake , buy more shares , or make another offer at a lower price .
The Manhattan real-estate developer acted after the UAL buyers failed to obtain financing for their earlier $ 300-a-share bid , which sparked a selling panic among that snowballed into a 190-point drop Friday in the Dow Jones Industrial Average .
Together , the two stocks wreaked havoc among takeover stock traders , and caused a 7.3 % drop in the Dow Jones Transportation Average , second in size only to the stock-market crash of Oct. 19 , 1987 .
Some said Friday 's market debacle had given Mr. Trump an excuse to bail out of an offer that showed signs of stalling even before problems emerged with the UAL deal .
Some takeover stock traders had been betting against Mr. Trump because he has a record of disclosing stakes in companies that are potential takeover targets , then selling at a profit without making a bid .
`` He 's done this thing where he 'll buy a little bit of a company and then trade out of it .
He 's written this book , ` The Art of the Deal . '
Why does n't he just follow through on one of these things ? ''
Mr. Trump withdrew his bid before the AMR board , which is due to meet tomorrow , ever formally considered it .
AMR had also sought to foil Mr. Trump in Congress by lobbying for legislation that would have bolstered the authority of the Transportation Department to reject airline buy-outs .
Yesterday , Mr. Trump tried to put the blame for the collapse of the UAL deal on Congress , saying it was rushing through a bill to protect AMR executives .
`` I believe that the perception that legislation in this area may be hastily approved contributed to the collapse of the UAL transaction , and the resulting disruption in the financial markets experienced this past Friday , '' Mr. Trump wrote members of Congress .
AMR declined to comment , and Mr. Trump did n't respond to requests for interviews .
Mr. Trump never said how much AMR stock he had bought , only that his holdings were `` substantial . ''
In an attempt to persuade investors that his bid was n't just `` a stock play , '' Mr. Trump promised last week to notify the market before selling any shares .
AMR was trading at around $ 84 yesterday before his withdrawal announcement , then immediately fell to about $ 76 .
Some analysts said AMR Chairman Robert Crandall might seize the opportunity presented by the stock price drop to protect the nation 's largest airline with a defensive transaction , such as the sale of stock to a friendly holder or company employees .
However , other knowledgeable observers said they believed Mr. Crandall and the AMR board might well decide to tough it out without taking any extra steps .
I 'm sure he still wants AMR . ''
But others remained skeptical .
Mr. Trump never obtained financing for his bid .
That skepticism would leave him with an even greater credibility problem should he return that would handicap him in any effort to oust the board in a proxy fight .
Meanwhile , Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. , the two lead lenders on the UAL buy-out , met with other banks yesterday to determine if they would be willing to finance the buy-out at a lower price .
Officials familiar with the talks said Citicorp had discussed lowering the offer to $ 250 a share , but said that price was a talking point and that no decision has been made .
At $ 250 a share , the group would have to borrow about $ 6.1 billion from banks .
The first UAL deal unraveled after Citibank and Chase could n't raise $ 7.2 billion .
Citibank and Chase had agreed to commit $ 3 billion , and said they were `` highly confident '' of raising another $ 4.2 billion .
Together , Citicorp and Chase received $ 8 million in fees to raise the rest of the financing .
But other banks balked at the low interest rate and banking fees the UAL group was willing to pay them .
Nor is the group likely to come forward with a revised offer within the next 48 hours despite the hopes of many traders .
The group 's advisers want to make certain they have firm bank commitments the second time around .
Even if the buy-out group is able to obtain financing , the transaction still faces obstacles .
UAL 's board could reject the new price as too low , especially since there are n't any competing bids .
In addition , the coalition of labor and management , longtime enemies who joined forces only under the threat of Mr. Davis 's bid , could break apart now .
The group 's resilience gets its first test today when 30 top pilot union leaders convene outside Chicago in a previously scheduled meeting .
The pilot union is vowing to pursue an acquisition whatever the board decides .
If they were to insist on a low bid of , say $ 200 a share , the board might n't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders because banks might hesitate to finance a transaction the pilots oppose .
Also , because UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL executives have joined the pilots ' bid , the board might be forced to exclude him from its deliberations in order to be fair to other bidders .
That could cost him the chance to influence the outcome and perhaps join the winning bidder .
